HOW TO MAKE PEOPLE DO WHAT YOU WANT How the Science of Likeability Influences our Behaviours. Use Psychological Techniques to Persuade, Attract and Win People Over CHRISTOPHER KINGLER © Copyright 2021 by Christopher Kingler - All rights reserved. The content contained within this book may not be reproduced, duplicated or transmitted without direct written permission from the author or the publisher. Under no circumstances will any blame or legal responsibility be held against the publisher, or author, for any damages, reparation, or monetary loss due to the information contained within this book; either directly or indirectly. Legal Notice: This book is copyright protected. This book is only for personal use. You cannot amend, distribute, sell, use, quote or paraphrase any part, or the content within this book, without the consent of the author or publisher. Disclaimer Notice: Please note the information contained within this document is for educational and entertainment purposes only. All effort has been executed to present accurate, up-to-date, and reliable, complete information. No warranties of any kind are declared or implied. Readers acknowledge that the author is not engaging in the rendering of legal, financial, medical or professional advice. TABLE OF CONTENTS Introduction PART I. THE SCIENCE OF LIKABILITY Chapter 1: Increase Your Likability Chapter 2: Why Connections Are Important? Chapter 3: False Myths—Overcoming Obstacles Chapter 4: The Importance of Appearance Chapter 5: The Impact of Social Status Chapter 6: What Motivates Us? Chapter 7: Setting Goal and Vision PART II. BUILD A STRONG, POSITIVE SELF-IMAGE Chapter 8: 23 Tips to Look More Attractive Chapter 9: The Art of Emotional Intelligence Chapter 10: Choose Your Charisma Style Chapter 11: How to Be Reliable and Trustworthy Chapter 12: Build Unstoppable Confidence Chapter 13: Psychological Tricks to Make a Good First Impression Chapter 14: Exercises PART III. COMMUNICATION SKILLS Chapter 15: Developing Empathy Skills Chapter 16: Listen to People Chapter 17: Verbal, Paraverbal, and Nonverbal Communication Chapter 18: Communication Techniques Chapter 19: Exercises Chapter 20: The Power of Compliments Chapter 21: Familiarity Breeds Liking Chapter 22: Imitating and Mirroring Chapter 23: How to Choose Right People Chapter 24: Best Way to Turn an Enemy into a Friend Chapter 25: How to Build a Lasting Relationship Chapter 26: Manage the Difficult Situations Conclusion INTRODUCTION Did you know? There is nothing more difficult than getting people to do what you want them to do. If someone says they will do something, and then doesn’t, this is a lie called “a broken promise.” The first step in making people do what you want them to do is keeping your promises. The second step in making people do what you want them to do is to respect the wishes of others. You may be familiar with the phrase: “actions speak louder than words.” This phrase means that if we are going to make somebody follow through with their promises, actions are better than words. When someone says they will do something, it is very easy for them to say this and then not do it. This is a broken promise. In order to make people follow through with their promises, you need their trust and respect, which you earn by doing the following. 1. Never Make a Promise You Don’t Intend to Keep When you make a promise, it’s important to make sure that you are not promising something that you don’t intend to do. If you say that you are going to do something, consider it a goal that is just as important as getting your homework done or making sure you have your basic needs covered like food and shelter. 2. Always Follow Through with Your Promises If someone makes a promise to you and then they don’t follow through with this promise, this is very disrespectful and shows dishonesty (which is the opposite of respect). Show people you respect them by fulfilling your promises and by insisting that others follow through with promises. 3. Respect Other People’s Wishes and Feelings When people ask us to do something, and we say yes, then we are making them a promise. We need to follow through with this promise if it is something that we don’t mind doing and that does not cause problems for us. For example, during the summer, my younger brother Thomas asks every day what I am going to do that day. I know he doesn’t do this because he wants to know; he does it because he is bored and wants me to entertain him. It’s a lot of work being his entertainment, but I respect his wishes because I understand his boredom. If we don’t respect another person’s feelings, or if we go against their wishes, we are disrespecting them. Therefore, respecting other people’s wishes or feelings is extremely important. In the situation above, I knew my brother didn’t mind me taking care of his needs and doing whatever it takes to entertain him. To show my respect for his wishes, I would follow through with his request without a problem, even if it meant spending hours on end taking care of him. 4. Accept Your Limits and Don’t Attempt to Do Things You Know You Cannot Do Sometimes people try to persuade us to doing something they know we cannot do. When we try to do something we know we cannot do, it shows weakness and a lack of self-confidence. If we respect other people’s rights, then we need to respect their boundaries as well. For example, if someone says you cannot join a certain club or go somewhere with them, don’t talk them into letting you join or go with them. If they don’t want you to do these things, then it is because they know it will make no one happy, so there is no point in forcing yourself into these situations. 5. Don’t Complain About Your Problems Unless Someone Asks When someone asks for our opinion or offers us a solution to a problem, it is important that we speak up about the things that are making us unhappy. Here, we need to express our feelings and problems fully so someone else can help us solve them. If someone does not ask for your opinion or does not offer you solutions, then do not complain because people don’t want to hear about your problems if they can’t help you solve them. By complaining too much, you lessen other people’s respect for you. 6. Don’t Start Drama Over Small Problems or Concerns and Don’t Talk About Other People’s Business We can’t control what others do and say, but we can control how we respond to these situations. If something happens to us, that doesn’t make us happy or upset us, we need to avoid complaining about these things too much because people will not respect us. If someone tells you that there is a problem with the way another person treats them, it is your decision if you want to talk about this problem. You may talk about it if you choose to do so, but when someone comes at you with problems about other people’s treatment of them without asking for your permission, then this is not right. Other people need to respect our right to keep our problems in private and not let other people know about them. 7. Don’t Get Involved with Drama or Gossip Because This Can Hurt Your Self-Respect and the Respect Others Have for You It is natural for us to want to get involved with drama because it makes us feel like we are better than others. When we choose to follow this type of thinking, it makes us feel as if we are better than others and that we are more deserving of things while the rest of society is beneath us. The problem is that when you think this way, you make yourself into a person who cannot be trusted because you cannot live up to your expectations. If someone comes at you with drama or rumors about another person, this is not a good idea because you are giving them power over you by listening to them and responding to their words. It is important to keep your dignity by not getting too involved in these situations which ruin your self-respect. You can only fix this problem if you stop listening to the gossip and stay away from other people’s drama. 8. Don’t Call Other People Out When They Have Said Something That Offends You but Don’t Let It Slide Either If someone says something that offends us, we may react and show our frustration with what they have said. If someone does something that we feel is insulting to us, it is not right for us to call them out and say “you are a bad person.” We need to first listen to their comments and think about how our actions will affect them. It is also important that if we have a problem with what they have said, that we communicate with them afterward so that we can work out the issue or criticism together. If they do not care about the matter, then this type of attitude towards another person will only get worse as more people get involved in your drama. PART I. THE SCIENCE OF LIKABILITY CHAPTER 1: INCREASE YOUR LIKABILITY Increase Your Likability with These Tips Likability is a complicated thing to measure. It doesn’t come from your looks, your intelligence, or the way you speak. It comes from how people you interact with feel about you during and after they meet with you. This isn’t something that you can control immediately, but there are several things that you can do today to make this happen. 1. Be Engaged with Them No matter what you’re doing, make sure that you focus on the person who you’re conversing with. This doesn’t mean that the only way to be engaged is to stare at them directly, it means making eye contact and paying attention to what they are saying. If their eyes wander during the conversation, then yours should too! Even if your eyes do roam a bit, just make sure that you do so reasonably. Also, avoid using your phone during the interaction unless there is an emergency. 2. Be a Great Listener Remember that one of the best ways to be likable is to listen to how the other person speaks. If you remember everything that they tell you, then this will help them feel valued and appreciated. For some people, it may be difficult for them to hear themselves speak, so this is a great way for you to make sure that they get their point across clearly. You shouldn’t be looking for ways to talk about yourself during a conversation either. You should focus only on what the other person is saying instead of thinking about what you want to say next. 3. Talk in a Way That Will Make Them Want to Tip You If you know more or less what you’re talking about, then it will be easier for people to want to pay you. Even though this may seem obvious, many people don’t take the time to do this. When you talk, try to say things that people will remember. For example, if you’re talking about a movie, make sure that the facts are correct and make sure that they are memorable. Try to talk about the aspects of it that were funny, and those that made them cry or get angry. People will remember more of these aspects than they would if you just talked about the one big fact that everyone agrees on. 4. Make Their Dinner and Drink Special When people are paying you for work, it can be difficult for them to tip you. Many times, it is because they don’t feel like they have enough money in their pocket. However, there are plenty of things that you can do to make sure that the tips come in. The first thing that you should do is to take the extra time to prepare their meal or create a drink for them. You can go above and beyond in this realm by making minor adjustments to your menu as well. For example, if your customer loves ham but doesn’t like cheese on his sandwich, then try adding some cheddar cheese on top of the ham instead. This will be something that they are unlikely to ask for otherwise, and it will show them you were listening to them. 5. Be Genuine This is one of the most important things that you should do during your interactions with people. If you are trying to be likable, then people should see the real deal right away. Don’t pretend that you’re someone else and don’t guess what they want either. Instead, be a real human being that believes in something greater than themselves and knows how to get a great tip from people. Your likability is based on how much others like you, so make sure that they think highly of you after each interaction. 6. Throw in a Compliment Even though you shouldn’t be flirting with your customers, still try to be friendly when you’re working with them. If the person at the table next to you is wearing an interesting necklace or has a nice hairstyle, then tell them so! These compliments will make people feel good about themselves and will help them want to tip you at the end of the night. You can throw these in when it seems natural and don’t worry too much about trying to strike up a conversation. Even if they aren’t great, people are unlikely to remember what you said if they are feeling good about themselves. 7. Keep in Touch When you’re a cheerful worker, people are more likely to want to come back. This is true even when the work that you did was only average. If you’re likable, then it won’t matter because they will just want to keep coming back to see you. A great way for the regulars that know and love you to do this is through texting or emails. If they have a pleasant experience at your business, then this can be a simple way for them to tell their friends about it without having to do all the talking themselves! Let them know they can stay in touch with you any time if they need advice as well. “Be a great listener and then be fun to talk to.”—Tim Kendrick, founder of the 1:1 Mentoring Program. CHAPTER 2: WHY CONNECTIONS ARE IMPORTANT? In a world where social connections are increasingly important, it is both natural and necessary to learn the science behind likability. Following, we’ll be exploring some of the innovative scientific research that shapes how people form relationships. What Makes You Prefer One Person Over Another? Researchers have found that three factors play a significant role in preferring one person over another: similarity, reciprocity, and empathy. Concerning similarity, people become more attracted to those who share similar backgrounds or lifestyles; about reciprocity, we are much more likely to help someone who helps us first. With empathy, studies show that women will date someone who just listens, while men will date someone who asks questions about their feelings. Does Being Liked Make You Unlucky? For some, problems result from being liked by the wrong people. The good news is that there’s no evidence to suggest that being liked by the wrong people makes us unhappy. This study concludes that we like the people we choose to like because they are more likely to form relationships with us. How Do We Assess Likability? Although we know each of us forms bonds with people, it’s less clear how we form those bonds. From an evolutionary perspective, we need to trust others, so it’s in our best interest to make fast and accurate judgments regarding interpersonal trust. Although there are few studies on this topic, common sense tells us that first impressions are important and leave a lasting impression, which dictates how we form our relationships. What Are the Benefits of Being Liked? The most obvious benefit of being liked is that others are more likely to want to be in your company. Much has been written about how connections with others can lead to greater happiness—it’s no secret that many people form their primary relationships around common interests and hobbies. This means that by being likable, you will have an easier time making friends with those who enjoy the activities you enjoy. Do People Like It When You’re Nice? Although this may seem like a no-brainer, there is evidence that some people dislike others for being too nice. For example: being too nice can lead others to feel as if they are not in control of the relationship. It may lead them to worry they are burdensome, and it can give others the impression that you expect something in return. The best tip here is not to go overboard with niceness—being excessively nice can backfire. The Science of Likability What’s Going On in Your Brain When You’re Liked? In the deepest parts of your brain, emotions are connected to thoughts. Some research has shown that when we feel liked by others, the part of our brains responsible for relationships lights up. When you’re not liked by someone, however, this part of your brain becomes quiet and the only thing noticeable is a negative feeling. This likely is why you feel bad when someone doesn’t like you because it’s unusual for them to do so. The upside is that being liked leads to positive feelings associated with social connection, optimism and increased well-being. What Do People Think When You’re Liked? Science shows that we do not consciously think about being liked by others. As a result, our thoughts are driven by automatic physical and emotional responses. It’s hard to think about liking someone when you’re feeling a positive boost in your oxytocin levels. This means that there may be even more benefits to being likable—if you can get others to like you, they are more likely to treat you with respect. Besides, this research shows that people feel good when they think others like them—this boosts feelings of social connection and makes them want to be liked again. Do You Like Someone More When They Like You? Our brains are hard-wired to bond with those who like us as well. Research suggests that we like others in proportion to how they like us, so if you want someone to like you, then it’s important that you try to like them too. It may seem obvious, but it has lasting implications. The more you’re liked, the more others will want to be liked by you. The tricky part is getting others to feel confident around you and stop playing hardball—research shows that if someone likes us, then we’re likely to like them back. What’s the Ideal Likability Ratio? The more others like you, the more likely it is that they will be interested in forming a relationship with you. However, there is a difference between being liked and being liked by others—being liked by too many people can make us appear as though we are desperate. To avoid this, it’s important to limit your exposure to ensure your social capital remains strong. It’s best not to be liked by everyone. This means that if you want others to like you, then you need to find others who have a similar opinion of you and who share the same interests. When You’re Not Liked, Things Turn Bad—Fast The effects of being disliked are far more significant than we imagine. When you are disliked by others, they are less trustworthy and more likely to exploit you. This means that people who refuse to be liked by others will find it difficult to form relationships with others. If they want to get ahead in their career, or make friends (which is a requirement for most activities), then the only options will be unimportant people or strangers. As a result, inner-city kids spend their time in school worrying about why they don’t have close friends. Overcoming the Challenge This chapter may be a little depressing, but it’s research we can all relate to. If you want to be liked by others, then make sure you try being liked by them too. Don’t play hardball—if someone likes you, then they’re likely to reciprocate the feelings and will build a friendship with you. The best way to do this is with zero threats. Make sure that you are not tempted to go down the “I need your validation” road. Try being liked by everyone who likes you —this will ensure that others see it as important and encourage them to react accordingly. CHAPTER 3: FALSE MYTHS—OVERCOMING OBSTACLES False Myths—Overcoming Obstacles to Become the Likable Person We All Want to Be We’ve been working hard here at www.likeable.com and have found that many people don’t understand themselves as well as they could. This makes it hard for them to make changes in their lives, especially when it comes to being more likable! For example, did you know there is no such thing as a “liking reflex”? This means that when someone turns up their nose or makes a face at you, it doesn’t mean they don’t like you (unfortunately). Their reactions are because of a range of factors—some of which may have nothing to do with you! The way we look at the world is called “cognitive bias” and there are many ways it can affect our likability. To help you overcome these obstacles, we’ve put together some useful insights that will help you work out how to seem more likable when things don’t go your way. Let’s look at a few... “If you are not perceived as having the qualities of confidence and magnetic charisma, you will be seen as lacking these qualities.”—Dr. Robert Cialdini. “People who are disagreeable are often just trying to draw attention to themselves.”—Peter McWilliams. Kingdom of Unreason: “Why we believe what we don’t know— And why our beliefs are WILDLY inaccurate!” —Peter McWilliams “Making people feel great about themselves is an essential part of a great sales pitch. In fact, the whole sales process is simply a drawn-out version of a seduction.”—Peter McWilliams. “The greatest moral failure of our time is that we have forgotten how to talk to each other. We have isolated ourselves in madhouses called suburbs, and burbs, and shopping centers, and freeways where only technicians can reach us. We still believe in conversation, but we cannot see that conversation is impossible among people who do not really hear one another, where there are no common convictions, no common understanding of experience.”—Peter McWilliams. “It is never too late to be what you might have been.”—George Eliot. “The first step in winning an argument is to pick a fight.”—Peter McWilliams. “If you want something, all the universe conspires in helping you to achieve it.”—Paulo Coelho. What We Learned: How to Get People to Like You “You can’t make a good sale if the prospect doesn’t like you. And nobody likes a liar.”—Peter McWilliams. Rules for a Successful Life Don’t sweat the small stuff. It’s all small stuff. “Life is too short.”—Peter McWilliams. “Everyone thinks of changing the world, but no one thinks of changing himself.”—Leo Tolstoy. “Success is not final; failure is not fatal: it is the courage to continue that counts.”—Winston Churchill. “The great end of life is not knowledge but action.”—Francis Bacon. “The greatest of all action is service.”—Confucius “If we must be deformed in order to be beautiful, let us be beautiful.”—Oscar Wilde. Other Tips to Make Someone Like You It’s not what you say but how you say it that counts! So listen carefully when people talk to you—and pay close attention to their nonverbal cues, too. Pay attention to what other people are saying. On the off chance that you may know something about their topic, add to the conversation and show some interest. A good listener is always interesting! We all have a bias in the way we perceive the world. As Peter McWilliams said, “Everybody makes up his own reality. The truth is whatever it makes you feel good to believe.” “The power of positive thinking is a mysterious and wonderful thing, especially when it works.”—Peter McWilliams. A likable person does not just have qualities but is also aware of having these qualities—and knows how to use them to their advantage, and others too. CHAPTER 4: THE IMPORTANCE OF APPEARANCE What makes someone universally likable? Unfortunately, this is not a simple question that we can answer with one phrase or idea. However, determining our likability is crucial to our success. To do this, we must understand what makes people likable before we can implement how the specific person can become more likable. What makes a person universally likable? It’s not always as simple as “making yourself likable.” We have found that the qualities of likability fall into six categories. These are the things that people can’t help but love, including how you look, your personality, your sense of humor, and even things you do in everyday life such as donating to charity and helping others. But before we get into what makes everybody likable—let’s examine just one of them! Appearance Appearance is something we all appreciate in humans. People judge others on how they look, and most people will judge someone based solely on their physical appearance. From a young age, children learn to show concern for their body and be careful with their looks. Since the body is the first thing we see when we meet someone, it’s natural for us to evaluate them on that basis. Although appearance has nothing to do with one’s personality, many people will judge a person on their looks alone. However, what makes a person universally likable is not their physical appearance, but how they carry themselves. Build This is one of the first things a person will notice upon first meeting them. Physically, it’s important to be attractive. However, what makes us feel comfortable with someone is how they look. How we perceive and interact with our body is something that we must understand as the foundation for likability. The best way to describe this is how people judge a person based solely on their looks before getting to know them. This might not seem like too much, but one mis-judgment can ruin reputations and relationships. The world is changing and building a good body is becoming increasingly important. Unfortunately, this is not everyone’s reality, and some people might consider this to be an impossible task. However, it’s important to remember that nothing is impossible. You can take care of your body by eating better and exercising often. You don’t need to be an athlete or model —you just need to take care of yourself and move around as much as possible. CHAPTER 5: THE IMPACT OF SOCIAL STATUS The impact of social status on one’s ability to succeed is undeniable. You can be brilliant, creative, and charismatic, but if you’re a nobody, you’ll always be a nobody. In every sphere of life, from politics to society, from business to romance— being popular pays big dividends! But what exactly is it that makes someone more popular than another? What insights does science have on the power of likability? How do we go about making ourselves more popular? These are the questions I will attempt to answer in this post. Before we can investigate the science of likability, it’s back to basics and for a refresher on what likability is. What Is Likability? Likability, simply put, is a person’s tendency to be liked by others (Pickett & Aronson, 2007). It’s a concept commonly used in social sciences such as psychology and sociology to explain why people are liked or disliked by others. In other words—we behave nicer towards people that are more likable than others, and we do this unconsciously. This behavior is clear even amongst friends (Pickett & Aronson, 2007). The first stage of likability is a person’s personality. Personality refers to the set of behaviors, attitudes, and characteristics that make up a person. There are thousands of things that make up a person, but it’s the traits and characteristics that are most important in determining likability (Pickett & Aronson, 2007). In short—personality defines likability. The second stage is our appeal. The appeal involves the qualities that make people like you. This could include your looks or intelligence and your personality—this increases our likability (Pickett & Aronson, 2007). The Science of Likability—It’s all in the Genes! Genetics and the science of likeability are too closely intertwined to ignore. However, the impact of genetics on likeability is not always straightforward. For example, a 2009 study by D.S. Hirsh et al., found there is no significant association between an individual’s genetics and their overall likability (Hirsh et al., 2009). So if our genetics aren’t responsible for our likability, what is? It turns out that at least part of it is our genes influencing the way we respond to others (Hirsh et al., 2009). Our genes influence our response when we are around other people. In particular, our immune system—which plays a role in how we fight germs (Hirsh et al., 2009). This is good news for those who are less likable—it’s something that can be trained or altered! The first aspect of the immune system that influences our likability is mediated through the “major histocompatibility complex” (MHC) (Hirsh et al., 2009). MHC affects the way people react to one another, as it produces antibodies to combat germs. Having MHC genes that are compatible with the other person (through a process known as “cross-reacting”) is important (Hirsh et al., 2009). In the same way that MHC affects our likeability, our genes can play a role in diminishing it. For example, while women receive more favorable treatment from men because of their likability, genetics also plays a part in influencing the way people respond to women (Hirsh et al., 2009). This evidence suggests that there is no one-size-fits-all for making yourself more likable— and you may never reach perfection. Still, the science of likability is something that can be perfected. If there are aspects of the immune system and other genes that influence our likeability, then we can change these things. The question is, how? Perfecting Your Likability We learned that personality, appeal (attractiveness), and genetics (MHC) affect likability in three distinctive ways: The next step is to use this knowledge to understand how to improve our likeability in each of these categories! Personality There are many aspects of the personality that make up a person, and you can easily fine-tune these aspects to become more likable. These include: Self-esteem: This is the view we have of ourselves. In short, if we like ourselves—we are more likely to be liked by others (Pickett & Aronson, 2007). The higher your self-esteem—the more confident you will be and this will improve your overall likability (Greater Good Science Centre, 2012). Playing Devil’s Advocate: This is the ability to see another person’s side of an argument. Doing so will allow you to see things from other people’s perspectives; allowing you to understand them better (Pickett & Aronson, 2007). Honesty and Integrity: Being honest and having integrity will allow you to build trust with the people in your life (Hirsh et al., 2009). As we know, trust matters in being likable. Appeal The second part of our likability formula has to do with appeal—which includes how attractive we are perceived to be. There are many things you can do to improve your appeal and make others like you more. First impressions matter. A study by Ambady et al. (2000) found that “a first impression made within a tenth of a second can predict the person’s overall likability” (Hirsh et al., 2009). Therefore, making a good impression is important for becoming more likable. CHAPTER 6: WHAT MOTIVATES US? What motivates us? Intimacy? Power? Respect? Recent research by Dr. Robert Cialdini suggests people are motivated to do what the other person wants them to do, which can lead to one of the most liked parts about a person’s character, their generosity. Both situational and dispositional selflessness increases likability. The Science of Likability (i.e., we like to do what we think other people want us to do) has been the subject of research by Dr. Robert Cialdini, Arizona State University professor emeritus of psychology and the bestselling author of Influence: The Psychology of Persuasion. “What’s the one thing that most children learn before they learn to walk and talk? They learn how to be generous,” says Cialdini. “It’s one of those things about universal human behavior—a characteristic that runs deep within our psyches. But it’s also one of those human behaviors that many people think they ignore.” Cialdini describes a series of experiments that show our affinity for generosity. In one, a panhandler asks you to buy him something from a nearby store. He gives you directions to find it and claims he has no other money. The store is out of the way and the item he wants costs $3, which is more than half the amount of cash in your wallet. Your blood boils, but you buy him the item anyway because you don’t want to let him down. The panhandler says nothing about returning the favor, and you don’t because it didn’t cross your mind while making the purchase. But when you get home, you open your wallet and discover you only have $1.77. You’ve lost $2.00, and the guy who asked for so little doesn’t seem to mind at all. You’re feeling both happy and guilty about the transaction, but what steals your heart is the guy’s reaction. He says thanks and leaves. “That’s an agreeable person!” your friend says as she watches him walk away, “He’s probably never seen such a generous person in his entire life.” It’s true—people are more likely to be generous when they think others are generous. It’s not the person who was being generous that has made your friend so happy, it’s the thought of a generous person. As a counter-example, imagine you’re in an elevator and someone who looks like they’re heading to a funeral comes in. This person is very somber until they see you. Suddenly they light up and smile. You wonder why this person was so happy to see you? But then everything clicks: Your elevator mate is thinking about how generous you were when they saw your wallet. In their mind, you are the generous one—not them—and so their happiness comes from knowing that someone like that exists in this world. Research from a wide variety of psychological and behavioral sciences has revealed six sources of influence, which Cialdini describes in his book, “Influence: The Psychology of Persuasion.” In the Science of Likeability blog series, Cialdini explains how you can use each of the six inspiration sources to be liked by anyone. Let’s explore some of them. Reciprocity We like people who give us things—even when we don’t want them or didn’t know that we wanted them! Suppose that you’re walking down a city street one day with your next-door neighbor and see an old woman who’s fumbling with her purse. You ask if she needs help. You’re just trying to be nice, but the old lady offers you a $10 bill. You’ve never even met this woman before, and she doesn’t owe you anything, yet you take the money because it’s something that everybody does. Keeping this transaction in perspective will help you resist any guilt over taking the cash. Authority People are more likely to do what they think someone else wants them to do —just like how children respond to authority figures. In one of Cialdini’s experiments, he placed a sign in the elevator of an apartment building reading “Do not push buttons. Emergency use only.” The sign was only posted once, and never again. But people who saw the sign were more likely to push the emergency button when they were instructed to do so by the experimenter, who was disguised as a repairman—even though doing so would accomplish nothing. In another of Cialdini’s experiments, he asked college students to do what he said because they might win money if they did so. Even though the students knew the contest was rigged and that they wouldn’t win anything anyway, 85% of them dutifully walked into another room and did what he told them to do—just because someone in authority had asked them to. Scarcity Even if we don’t want something, we often give it to somebody else, anyway. In the early 1970s, some people in Jackson, Mississippi, were asked to sign a petition to revoke one of the city’s two bus routes. To spur more signatures, the mayor placed a “special appeal” in the newspaper for anyone not wanting the second bus service cut off—but would like more buses as well—to sign and turn in their papers before February 16th. A week later, on February 9th, the city announced that four extra buses were being added to the route and performed a post-campaign survey of all those who signed. To the surprise of many, they discovered that more people had signed the petition to keep both buses running than there were signatures on the original petition to cut one of them. CHAPTER 7: SETTING GOAL AND VISION The first step to becoming more likable is setting goals. Base these goals on what you want out of your relationship with the person you’re trying to meet. For example, if you just want someone to go grab beers with, then ask him or her out for drinks. If your goal is to find someone with whom to spend the rest of your life, then plan date-after-date in order to get to know them better and determine if you are ready for that commitment. Becoming More Likable One of the biggest things about being likable is having good hygiene. This doesn’t mean wearing the latest fashion, it means maintaining yourself. Some examples of good hygiene include shaving regularly, brushing your teeth twice a day, flossing, etc. Another way that you can become more likable is by smiling. Smiling is something that we do naturally when we see someone that we like. So if you want people to like you, then make sure you’re smiling around them. Also, be sure to smile when talking on the phone because this will allow the person on the other line to feel more comfortable with you. One more way to become more likable is by directly complimenting the person you’re talking to. You don’t have to go overboard, a simple “I like your shirt” goes a long way. Making Friends If you are already friends with the person who you want to become more intimate with, then you will have a much easier time becoming closer. Make sure that you’re interested in being more than just friends, but also make sure that your friend knows about your intentions. If the person is on the fence and they are unsure about their feelings for you, then tell them of all the great things that they do and praise them while being sure not to appear too eager. This will make the person feel great about themselves, and it will make them want to spend more time with you. Attracting a Romantic Partner To attract someone into a romantic relationship, it is important that you make yourself approachable. A good way to do this is by asking for help when you need it because this shows that you aren’t afraid to ask and it makes the other person feel needed. Another way to attract someone into a romantic relationship is by telling them things about yourself. People love talking about themselves, so if you can get your partner talking then everything else will be easy. Also, compliment your partner regularly. They’ll love hearing how great they are doing in life. In conclusion, to make your relationships healthier, it is important to let people know you like them. Doing things like complimenting them will make you seem more likable. It is also important to keep yourself looking as good as possible because how you look says a lot about how much effort you put into yourself. Don’t forget to smile around the people you want to be closer with because it makes them feel good, and it makes them want to be near you more. The biggest factor in becoming popular is by making friends with the person first, and then everything else will follow. The last tip is to just enjoy life. Life is short, so make the most of your time by enjoying it. PART II. BUILD A STRONG, POSITIVE SELF-IMAGE CHAPTER 8: 23 TIPS TO LOOK MORE ATTRACTIVE The secret of success is looking good, so look your best! 1. Eat more soluble fiber to not only nourish but also to help you look slim and trim. 2. Flush toxins from your body by drinking lots of filtered water— about 3 liters a day. 3. Get plenty of restful sleep, at least 8 hours per night or more if possible. 4. Wear clothes that fit well without pulling or being too baggy so that there is no excess fabric on the body which can add pounds and make you appear shorter and heavier than you are. 5. Avoid wearing dark colors that are dull because they make everything under them look ashy. 6. Wear natural fibers such as cotton, linen, and silk that breathe to keep you cool and to avoid sweating. 7. Wear fabrics that are soft, or silky against your skin, for it feels luxurious and helps you look your best. 8. Go to the dentist for regular checkups and cleanings and use mouthwash to make your mouth feel fresh. 9. Invest in a quality natural deodorant with less aluminum that will not make you smell like a walking bottle of perfume. 10. Don’t use too much cologne or perfume because you can end up smelling like an artificial flower garden —a bit much. Lightly spray each area of your body with one or two sprays. 11. Handle your appearance regularly because if you don’t, your face can pick up aging signs such as crow’s feet or lines around the eyes. 12. Don’t wear make-up that is heavy or overly opaque. 13. Know that looking good is on the inside and on the outside, so work on your inner beauty with meditation, positive thinking, and self-love to get the best results. This will help you be more confident and attract more people to you as well as giving off positive energy. 14. Take care of your teeth and gums by brushing and flossing daily, not only for a brilliant smile but also to prevent gum disease which can lead to tooth and bone loss. 15. Know that white clothing reflects the light differently than colored clothing, so avoid wearing too much white or you will look washed out. 16. Care about what you put in your body because what you feed your body affects how healthy you look. Eat plenty of fresh fruits, vegetables, lean protein (fish, poultry), and whole grains. Drink lots of filtered water. 17. Be active—practice dancing as much as possible to exercise all the major muscles in your body. 18. Exercise helps you look good and remain healthy so that you can be active throughout the day and sleep well at night. 19. Eat natural, whole foods and avoid processed snacks because they are empty-calorie consumables that contain chemicals, sugar, and other ingredients that fatten you up—eat actual food. 20. Drink plenty of water—at least one gallon per day. 21. Avoid drinking too much coffee because it can dehydrate you and cause constipation. Drink tea instead. 22. Brush your teeth with baking soda or a natural toothpaste like Dr. Teeth’s helping prevent cavities and plaque build-up. 23. Avoid wearing colors that are dull, drab, and boring because they make everything under them look ashy. Wear bright, bold colors to make your face come alive. CHAPTER 9: THE ART OF EMOTIONAL INTELLIGENCE The art of emotional intelligence is about the ability to identify and manage your emotions to stay true to your goals while avoiding uncertainty. It’s about learning how you can be the best version of yourself to increase your chances of success. It is important for you to know why you want what you want and why those reasons are meaningful to you. We only make things happen by taking risks, making moves on opportunities when they present themselves, and exploring possibilities. Our minds are astounding machines we can program and condition in countless ways. You can train your mind to think in certain ways, and you can also train it to think in other ways. You start small with basic thoughts and basic habits, but as you become more advanced you develop skills—like the ability to break old patterns, develop new skills, and expand into alternative possibilities. Now more than ever before there are a variety of people who have a lot of emotional intelligence (EI) abilities—but there are also exceptions like the Trump supporters who don’t understand how they got where they are or even Donald himself (he doesn’t seem to have the ability or want to understand why he won). These people are in denial because they have been ignorant, and their false self-image will never let them understand the truth. However, many people have EI abilities that can learn about themselves and also control themselves. 1. Admit Your Flaws A huge part of developing your emotional intelligence is being able to admit your flaws and always being honest with yourself. A great way to establish honesty is by having meaningful conversations with yourself—you need to ask questions that will get you closer to the truth about yourself. Questions like, where do you want to go in life? What makes you feel happy What goals do you want to accomplish? What are your strengths and weaknesses? And how can you improve on those weaknesses? Surely, there will be flaws, but instead of running away from them and ignoring them, acknowledge them and use them to better yourself. Admitting your flaws and understanding what type of person you are will help develop an image for yourself that is more positive. People naturally make a judgment about us by the way we present ourselves—so being honest with yourself is only going to benefit you in the long run. 2. Admit Your Feelings One of the hardest things to do is admit you feel a certain way. We have trouble admitting that so many things weigh us down. I recently talked to a woman after she told me she felt like she was going crazy because she had no control over her feelings and couldn’t stop crying. She admitted that crying was a normal part of her process, but she thought it was unhealthy because it didn’t help her progress in life—she thought admitting the crying would give off the appearance that she’s weak and unable to handle things in life. However, admitting your feelings is the first step to understanding them. I told her she was a warrior—not only for being able to admit that she’s human and has feelings, but for also being able to go through her processes in life. A warrior understands when they’re going through something, but then also what are some ways they can handle it. It’s about taking action because the longer you sit around doing nothing, the worse it gets. Once you feel emotions like fear or anger or sadness or happiness... recognize them and accept them as part of your process—they all mean something and there is always a great lesson to be learned from them. Then take action on them. Ask yourself, what are some things I can do to feel better? Try meditation, prayer, breathing exercises, or even nature to help you feel at ease with yourself. If you don’t take action on your feelings, the bad ones only get worse and it may be too late when you realize how bad they are. 3. Understand Your Values Understanding your values is a big part of having a positive self-image because it’s about knowing what is important to you—what do you value? Do values change? I’ve noticed that they shift over time—for example, when I was younger I used to value material things like money and clothes because they were associated with status in my neighborhood. But when I was older, I realized that what’s more important is family, stability, and security—and those are things that money can’t buy. Not only do values shift over time, but they also change from person to person. For example, when I was in high school, it was all about muscles because everyone wanted to be bigger and stronger. Nowadays I wouldn’t consider bodybuilding as a value anymore because my body just isn’t the same—it’s different from before (I’ve gained weight and my lower back hurts all the time!) So values change from person to person depending on age, health status, goals, and interests. Understanding what you value and what’s important to you is a great way to control yourself. It sounds simple, but how often do we act on things that are not important to us? Everything is important in life, so understanding your values will help keep you focused and grounded in who you want to be. Knowing what’s most important will allow you to take actions that will get you where you want to be—like listening more closely when people are trying to tell you something. CHAPTER 10: CHOOSE YOUR CHARISMA STYLE Are you the shy and reserved type, the adventurous extrovert, or somewhere in between? Your personality affects your effectiveness with others. Find out what style suits you best. You’re Shy: Conquer your social anxiety by learning how to overcome shyness and building your self-confidence. Practice makes perfect! Don’t forget to encourage yourself along the way. You’re Extroverted: Consider that introverts might not be interested in your conversation topics or want to be approached at all times for conversation. Learn how to engage an introvert meaningfully without losing it by asking questions instead of statements, listening without interruption, and having patience when waiting for their response. You’re In-Between: Clinging to a personality type is unrealistic. Accept that you’re an extrovert or introvert, depending on the situation. Accept also that you can be any mix of both in your life—even a mix-and-match can be successful! Choose Your Fate Do you want to learn how to become more charismatic? Do you want to become a better leader? Or maybe even both. Charisma is useful in many places and for many things! The choice is yours... When in doubt, choose wisely! Remember, charisma takes practice and effort. It will never happen on its own. The Charisma Skill: Scales to Character Traits Charisma uses skills. Some skills and traits are defined by the character class, some are determined by the charisma style. The following details how to use them in a game session with a few examples. The Charisma Style: It’s All About Your Traits! Each player has the choice to choose 1 of 6 charisma styles (Bard, barbarian, ranger, wizard, cleric). It’s recommended that you pick a style that suits your personality and allows you to be most effective in social settings. Remember, just because you’re a human doesn’t mean that you can’t be charismatic! Ashley (Bard): You’re the master of words and the reason people listen. You can dazzle with your wit and express yourself with eloquence. This style will make others feel special and give them great ideas, even if they don’t follow through on them. Belinda (Barbarian): You’re a witty rogue who knows how to have fun. You can strike fear into the hearts of enemies thanks to your exaggerated tales that keep everyone talking! Clyde (Barbarian): You have a distinct personality and an outgoing nature. People want to know you and keep tabs on what you’re doing. Why not take full advantage of your popularity? Dahlia (Bard): You’re the star attraction in every crowd— everyone feels like they can relate to you because they see themselves in you! You’re the person who makes people feel good about themselves as well. Drake (Ranger): You have a wild sense of humor. You strive to be the life of the party and stir things up. People love your jokes but aren’t sure if you are serious or joking! Evelyn (Barbarian): You’re willing to do anything for a laugh— even at someone else’s expense. You love to make people feel left out and jealous of all the attention you receive. Gregory (Wizard): You’re an academic genius. Your knowledge and wisdom come across as condescending—unless you tone it down, you might scare some people off! Sophia (Cleric): Your ability to heal is unmatched. You can draw people into your circle and make them feel at ease. They may not like your strict moral views, but they will accept them because they like you. CHAPTER 11: HOW TO BE RELIABLE AND TRUSTWORTHY In a world of constantly changing digital environments, opportunities, and online presences, it is more important than ever to know how to protect your reliability and trustworthiness. Trust is something that has become difficult for people to come by when reading blog posts or following social media accounts. If you have any aspirations for success in the future, you must commit yourself now to being able to be reliable and trustworthy. “Trust me, all these stories are true...” The world is becoming more and more complex. As you learn more about how to be reliable and trustworthy, it will help you thrive in the digital environment. Trust, at its core, is a powerful tool that can be very beneficial when properly applied. You don’t need to have perfect grammar, and if your intentions are pure, you will have plenty of people willing to trust in your blogging efforts because of the content that you present. But what I’m trying to say here is don’t let those people fool you, as they are out for themselves, but occasionally, they can be helpful as well. It’s easy to start with the attitude and goal of being trusted, yet you have to keep those things in check. If you don’t develop a certain level of aplomb in the blogging community, you will fall by the wayside quickly. Trust is important, but so is reliability. Once you get your feet wet with online reputation management, it’s important that you can be reliable. Being unreliable will only lead to more problems once you get more serious about your blog or social media accounts. Having trust and reliability builds credibility and reassurance for people who are looking for that kind of service on a website or online forum. It’s not that difficult to be reliable, but it takes dedication and a willingness to make people feel secure with their online interactions with you. There are things you can do every day on the internet to show that you are reliable. Being Reliable Starts with Communication One of the most important things for being reliable is communication. Communication skills are vital in blogging, especially if you want any chance at success in the blogging or digital marketing industry. When you aren’t sure about something, the best thing that you can do is to ask questions. There is no embarrassment or shame in admitting you don’t know something. Not everything can be known to you until you are taught. Questions build trust and make your interactions with people more meaningful. It shows that you are interested in what they have to say and want to learn from them without being judgmental or condescending. Don’t forget that it’s always helpful to keep your ears open when it comes to blogging... When you are learning something new, it’s a better idea to ask questions. It’s important that people feel comfortable enough with you to get a response. Do your best to remember that people will always take the time to help someone who asks them questions. The best way of building trust and reliability is through personal communication. If you are good at communicating with your audiences, then you will have plenty of success in blogging. You don’t need large audiences to have a great blog or social media account. The right audience will be more than happy to connect with you for the content that you offer. Online Reputation Management For identifying your reliability and trustworthiness, I suggest that you only take action when you are confident in yourself. You should never start on the wrong foot with blogging and social media. That is all I’m saying here! All too often, people try to get ahead of themselves and buy things they won’t need or use. They jump up and down about being reliable and trustworthy but cannot realize that there is a fine line between the two. Take it slow with new things until you know them well enough. This goes for blogging as well as any other venture in life... The best way to build a reputation for trustworthiness is through communication online. Most people feel more comfortable interacting with others who they feel are reliable. This can be a simple thing, like responding to an email quickly or through more complicated interactions with others on social media. When people find out that you are reliable, you become trustworthy online. Trustworthy bloggers and social media users don’t come around too often, so it’s important that once you gain their trust online, that you never let them down. Your reputation is one of the most powerful things that you have as a blogger and social media user. A reputation ruined by unreliability will be difficult to recover from in the future. Creating a great online reputation takes a lot of time and effort. But it’s not that difficult if you approach it the right way. Reputation management is all about putting your best foot forward and being able to build trust in your online presence. While this can seem daunting, as long as you will put in the work, you will see success. CHAPTER 12: BUILD UNSTOPPABLE CONFIDENCE Turn your life around with these three simple steps! 1. Identify Your “Blocking Belief” To get rid of your “Blocking Belief,” you need to first identify what it is. It could be a nagging feeling, a limiting belief, or just something that’s been bothering you for some time. Figure out what’s holding you back and then write it down. Don’t worry about the fact that you’re not sure if this is the right one yet in this step. 2. Replace It with a Positive Affirmation Once you know your “Blocking Belief,” it’s time to replace it. You can use a lot of different methods, but one superb one is just reciting positive affirmations from the heart. What are some things you’d like to believe about yourself? Or if that’s too hard, what are some things you want in your life? Look at these affirmations every single day for the next 30 days. Make them visual and make sure you look at them several times a day. 3. Get Back to Action Finally, once you’re done with the thirty days of affirmations and feeling like your life has changed as a result, it’s time to get back to action. This is often referred to as the action phase, but call it whatever you want, as you work towards taking some proper action in your life. “The only way for me to overcome my staring-at-a-blank-wall theory is by continuing my affirmation process. I’ve heard and read about this concept of positive thinking before, but never really fully understood and taken it seriously. I know I know the difference between the real and the fake, and you’re probably wondering about the other four steps? Well, you’re going to have to wait for it in a couple of weeks. By the way, what are you waiting for? Go start your own!” “I also wanted to tell you that although I didn’t buy your book while In Brazil, I’ve been using the strategy of get back to action in my life ever since. It’s just awesome! Every day I’m more amazed by my progress and happy with how much better things are.” Steps in Practice 1. Identify Your “Blocking Beliefs” If you’re just starting with positive thinking, then this is the first step towards success. Look at what you want to happen in your life and then look at the things that are stopping you from achieving it. Write them down and keep looking over them to see what other beliefs they’re based on. 2. Replace Them with Positive Affirmations As you read through your lists, you’ll probably have positive affirmations to add. Here are a couple of examples: “My life is better than the day before” or “I have more money than I did yesterday.” These don’t exactly define life, but if it makes you feel better when reading them, then add them into your daily routine. 3. Get Back to Action No matter what you do with your positive affirmations, you’re going to have to take action for them to work. Every time you read one, think about how it relates to your daily life and what actions can come from that affirmation. “What is this, some kind of joke? I thought I was getting a step-by-step process for changing my beliefs.” You’re right. It’s just like when someone teaches you a new concept and then makes you do a project on it. What kind of project would you make even if you got the concept 100 percent? Positive thinking is a great tool to help you get into a positive state of mind. But what if you could go further than that? What if you could live in that state of mind and even improve on it through your actions with little effort? It’s true! When I first learned of the various logical ways in which we think, I was amazed by how much our brain can do. So, I put this knowledge to use and made myself better at positive thinking. For three months, I looked at various forms of logical thinking and tried to incorporate them into my life. Not only did it help me understand everyone, but it also made positive thinking easier for me. For instance, you can use a process of elimination to find out what isn’t possible for you to have or do in your life. How? Well, if you have something in your life now but never had it before, then that’s not possible. If there is something that you desperately want and haven’t gotten yet, then there has to be something that is preventing you from getting it. Now that doesn’t mean there is some evil conspiracy keeping it from you... just that it’s not in your life right now and there has to be something keeping it from you. So, after looking at your life this way, you’ll start finding the things that aren’t possible for you to have or do. Once these are eliminated, you will have space in your mind for positive thinking to take root. CHAPTER 13: PSYCHOLOGICAL TRICKS TO MAKE A GOOD FIRST IMPRESSION Remember the last time you were in a meeting, and you were introduced to someone? It’s possible that the person’s handshake was so strong that it made your hand tingle for hours. It’s also possible that their handshake felt like a weak noodle wrapped around your hand. Did you have a positive first impression of this person? Probably not! But how about if they greeted you with a warm smile and firm eye contact? Would your perception be any different now? What if instead of shaking hands, they had tapped you on the shoulder as soon as they saw you enter the room and said “hello!” just so loudly that everyone else could hear them. Would you have a positive opinion of them now? It’s all about the first impression you give off. Most people get so caught up in the day-to-day details of their job that they never really consider how they’re being perceived by their colleagues, clients, and superiors. After all, if someone else is leading the team or leading the charge on a project, then you are most likely doing your job. So why are you putting so much focus on yourself? When most people think about first impressions, they usually think about how to give others an effective one. However, most of the time all they need is a better one. “Give a man a fish and he eats for a day. Teach him to use the internet and he can sit in front of the computer all day.” How we act can make or break our reputation within an organization. For example, within the first 2 minutes, someone usually decides whether they are going to take you seriously. How we are perceived and how others interact with us can either make or break our chances of getting what we want, whether it’s a raise or a promotion. Since it’s usually the first thing that impacts others, why not start with this crucial detail? The following are simple techniques to help you improve your first impression on others. Foremost: 1. Send a Positive Email! There is nothing more unprofessional than sending someone a poorly worded email. It shows ignorance, and possibly a lack of intelligence, if you ask me. There are two of many reasons this is an absolute no-no in sending e-mails. “The key to good writing is keeping it simple.”—Stephen King. Is it that difficult to type a sentence that has four or more words? How about some punctuation? Honestly, I am still surprised when I find emails from people that have multiple types. Do you ever think about how much time and money you are going to spend until you know what your job is going to be like for the next five months? Your resume, cover letter, and e-mail are all going to reflect on your professionalism. Just because they are doing it doesn’t mean you should. Many people ignore the fact that they are sending an official e-mail and format it, just like they did on their favorite social network. If you’re writing a letter to your grandmother, then by all means, do it however you want. But if you’re sending an e-mail to your boss or a colleague, be sure to use the proper formats for the job title and company name. Not only does this show people how respectful you are toward their profession, but it also shows that you have some sense of professionalism yourself. 2. Prepare for the Interview: Number One Con! Okay, so maybe going in with a list of questions wasn’t too bad of an idea after all. I think the number one rule in interviewing is to realize that you’re being interviewed. The interviewer is going to ask you a series of questions so that they can get an idea of your capabilities and help guide them in deciding for the future. To do this, it isn’t a bad idea to have prepared some basic questions yourself. “Good judgment often comes from the belly.”—Gandhi I think it’s important for all candidates to answer with a confident no, rather than a generic answer. Often people feel pressured into coming up with a set answer because they don’t want their interviewer thinking poorly of them. But in reality, you must answer in a way that puts you in a positive light. For example, if they ask if you want to be promoted at the next job, say “no.” Why? Because saying “yes” can make it look like you’re being dishonest or manipulative. If they ask why you want the job at their company, and your reason is because of the potential for promotion. Even though it’s a brilliant answer, the interviewer will probably not buy into it. Make sure questions that may arise are not just yes or no questions. It doesn’t even have to be about work or life experiences, but just about something random like sports or travel. The goal is to mirror the company you’re interviewing for and seem as if you will fit in well with the culture of that company. Being able to state your own opinion or fact is a great way to differentiate yourself from other candidates. 3. Be On Time! This may seem like a simple decision, but it’s one of the most important factors in making a good impression. I think there are two kinds of people: on-time people and people who are late. There doesn’t seem like much of a difference between the two, except for how “important” you make them out to be. If you are on time, people perceive you as being driven and hardworking, but if you are late, people may see you as lacking motivation and unable to work in a group setting. If it is your first time interviewing at a company, call the hiring manager ahead of time just to let them know that you’re coming over. Let the manager know when to expect you, so they can prepare for your arrival. You don’t want your interviewer thinking that you’re merely wasting their time by being late for your interview. “Don’t let the fear of striking out keep it from hitting the ball. “Don’t let the fear of falling make you sit when you stand.”—Babe Ruth Be sure to dress appropriately for the interview. Whether that means wearing a suit or just making sure that you’re clean-shaven or having your clothes ironed, it is important to showcase yourself as a professional. It may seem like common sense, but many people still don’t take this into account. 4. Don’t Brag About All Your Accomplishments! Yes, I know what you’re thinking: how can I not brag about my accomplishments? The key is to be self-aware in situations such as these. Remember back when you were younger and bragging about how good you were at playing soccer? Or how smart you were in math class? Or how much fun your fraternity was? Now that you are older, none of that means anything to anyone. Believe it or not, it is okay to have accomplishments without making a big deal out of them. No one cares if you got an A+ on every test in high school. No one cares if you know all the colors of the rainbow in alphabetical order or if you can say the alphabet backward perfectly. 5. Don’t Overuse Words Like “I, Me, Myself” People often get caught up in the moment. They try so hard to sell themselves that they forget to put themselves in the shoes of whoever will interview them. Try to speak more in the third person about yourself rather than using so many personal pronouns such as I or me. Don’t be afraid to ask questions during an interview as well! Just because you are the applicant doesn’t mean that you can’t learn anything from the interviewer as well! CHAPTER 14: EXERCISES If you’ve been struggling with how to build your self-image, this is for you. No matter what you go through in life, it’s important to know that there are exercises and other ways of improving your self-image! We’re going to share some of the best practices for building a powerful image with you. Start by taking care of yourself. Meals that help boost your mood are ideal: they can include complex carbohydrates and vegetables, as well as lean protein like fish or chickpeas. You’ll also want to get plenty of sleep! Take time out for yourself. For example, try to schedule some time for meditation or yoga. These practices are great for your mind and body. And if you are interested, there are also strength training exercises that help build a positive, powerful image! Get out into nature once in a while! This can include taking a walk in the woods, or sitting on the beach and watch the waves. These activities are great ways to get back in touch with yourself and the world around you. If you’re still struggling with how to build your self-image, don’t worry! We have more tips on how to improve your self-image for you below: Attend workshops on positive thinking. These workshops will help you develop fresh ways of thinking. You’ll learn about the different thoughts that exist in people’s minds, and how some of these thoughts can lead to bad outcomes. As an example, one effective way to think about your self-image is to imagine being able to see clearly through foggy and hazy eyes. This will help you improve your self-image! Experiment with different ways of looking at the world around you. See if there’s anything about how you look that would make others happy or inspired. Use affirmations to change your thinking patterns. Affirmations differ from other types of thoughts that we have because they can come true. For example, you could say, “I’m confident in my abilities.” You can use affirmations throughout the day to help work toward positive outcomes. Break the cycle of negative thinking. Negative thoughts can lead to negative outcomes for your self-image and your life. It’s important to change this cycle by replacing negative self-talk with positive statements about yourself and doing more activities that will make you feel good! Don’t let people get under your skin! Learn how to handle troublesome people who may be difficult to deal with positively by being polite and professional constructively. Learn how to get along with people who are closer to your age or a little older. You’ll be able to relate better and be more open-minded when in this age group, which will help you stand out at work or in the classroom. Work hard, work out regularly, and eat well! As you put more energy into your work, you’ll build a positive, potent image for yourself. Plus, immigrants need to have good health and exercise regularly if they want to live in the U.S. Explore alternative ways of doing things: Try taking on new hobbies that relate to the type of work that you’re currently doing (or what you hope to do later on). Set goals for the future. While you shouldn’t set goals that are more immediate than what you’re working on right now, it’s good to have some long-term goals for the near future. For example, if there are two avenues of study that interest you and you would like to pursue in college or university, set a goal of earning both degrees at once. Use time to reflect on the past. Time is also an important factor in developing a powerful image. When you are taking time to reflect on the past, it’s important to think of the things that went well. Also, try to reflect on the things that went badly and why these events happened. These reflections will help you become more mature and more ready for future experiences. Don’t take any event as a reason to be upset or depressed! It’s important not to get stuck in negativity by thinking about what went wrong or by dwelling on negative events from the past or present. With this in mind, try not to feel sorry for yourself! Perform rituals when you need to improve your self-image. Rites can help improve your self-image, positive strong image. For example, if you’re feeling sad about something that has happened to you or if you want something that is out of your reach, think about the symbols or things that represent this object or event. Make a connection between the thing you need and this representation. In this way, you are making the object or event more real and tangible in your mind. As a result, you can then work toward getting what you need. Some of these rituals can be as simple as having a nightlight in your home when it’s dark outside. Having the light on may not seem like much, but it can help ensure that all your house is safe when you are there alone at night. Other rituals may include making a shortlist or card for the things that you want to improve on to do with yourself. These lists can include things such as “I want to become more trustworthy,” “I want to lose weight,” or “I want to be more persuasive.” Alternatively, you might try writing a story or making up an adventure story about your triumphs in the past, present, and future. Make the story detailed and interesting while reflecting on all the positive aspects of yourself that you are proud of. Help other people. Being helpful is important for your self- image because it makes you feel good when you help others who need it. When you help others, you are also helping yourself! Stay focused on the positive. If you dwell on the negative, try to shift your focus. It’s important to realize that everything in life has its trials, its pluses and minuses. Dress well. What you wear can affect how others see you and how you feel about yourself. Take care of your hygiene and dress nicely at all times to give off a positive image for yourself! Improve your attitude towards others. For your self-image to improve, it’s important to treat everyone with kindness and respect. If you do this, you will become a better person and will improve how people see you. Hand over control to your subconscious mind. Your subconscious mind drives your feelings, thoughts, and actions. It can contribute to how people see you. Expect change. Change can be difficult, but it’s important not to give up when things don’t go the way you want. Change is constant in life; it’s the only constant there is! You may have moments when things do not go as planned, but they usually work out for the best in the end! Recognize your weaknesses. To make changes that will help you improve your self-image, it’s important to know what you are doing wrong. Doing this will give you a better chance of improving yourself. Surround yourself with positive people and change your environment if necessary. Be careful who you spend time with because they can affect your outlook on life and they can drag down or build up your self-image depending on how you choose to spend time with them. Change how you think about things. Think about changing the words that come out of your mouth too! Words have power, use them positively! PART III. COMMUNICATION SKILLS CHAPTER 15: DEVELOPING EMPATHY SKILLS Empathy is not a natural skill that we are born with. It’s something we, as humans, must develop throughout our lives. It begins early in life when parents talk to their children about how they are feeling and what they might be thinking. As children get older, empathy skills can be developed by playing with other children and pets and by reading books where characters have feelings like theirs. Outside of the home, schools can play a key role in developing empathy skills for kids and teens through Child Development & Care courses or social and emotional learning courses. Teaching empathy skills can start with teaching kids self-awareness, and how to use that information to think about how others might be feeling. With the help of a parent, kids may practice observing their feelings as well as informally discussing them together. In the classroom, teachers encourage students to talk about what is happening in their lives and discuss related thoughts and feelings. This leads to students paying attention to the feelings of classmates and learning how the thoughts and feelings of others might differ from theirs. This helps both children learn empathy skills and also teaches them about thinking ahead, practicing patience and fulfillment to eliminate peer pressure. Empathy Skills and the Impact on Personal Development As young people develop empathy skills, they reduce their potential to engage in bullying or other harmful behaviors. An important part of developing empathy skills is learning that hurting another person not only hurts them, but hurts you as well. Thus, empathy skills lead to happier relationships for individuals and a more harmonious all-around for the community. The positive impact on personal development is that having this skill will help them succeed in relationships with family and friends because they will see things from another’s point of view. Empathy Skills and the Impact on Relationships Research shows that empathy skills are linked with social connections. When people do not have a strong sense of self, they are more susceptible to peer pressure and become more easily influenced by others. This can lead to a downward spiral of losing social ties and putting oneself at risk for substance abuse, addiction, depression, and other mental health issues. Besides leading to poor mental health, experiencing this type of negative social interaction can also lead to depression, anxiety, low self-esteem, and even bullying. Empathy Skills and the Impact on Professional Development The ability to empathize helps people to succeed in their professional and personal relationships. With a high understanding of the emotional needs of others, people have more success in their professional relationships. Empathy skills lead to improved work performance and higher salaries. According to the World Economic Forum 2014 report, The Global Competitiveness Report, countries with an acute sense of social cohesion have a better quality of life. This means that people are happier and experience less stress and a greater sense of belongingness than those who do not possess this skill. Thus, enhancing empathy skills leads to a more vibrant overall experience and gives people better morale for living hectic lives and being productive at work and home. Besides improving professional relationships, empathy skills are extremely important in maintaining leadership potential. People who have a strong sense of self-confidence and can immerse themselves in the lives of others are more likely to be exposed to various opportunities. They not only find it easier to relate to others but also more difficult for them to put themselves first within a situation. Thus, it is easier for them to use their leadership qualities. Empathy skills may be vital for aging workgroups because these types of companies can face reduced productivity because of the age of their members. Empathy skills are important for older workers to remain relevant in the workforce as well as maintain a high level of productivity. Empathy Skills and the Impact on Mental Health The ability to empathize is important for mental health. For example, research shows that adolescents who have low empathy skills are more likely to commit violence in school or at home. Low empathy levels are also linked with bullying behaviors, substance abuse, or addiction, along with other mental health issues like depression and anxiety. Since it is easier for people to understand how they might feel if they have gone through a similar experience, these feelings can lead to uniting members against a common cause. When people do not possess this skill, they are more likely to ostracize the feelings of others and engage in acts of violence. The research shows that helping kids develop empathy skills can help prevent bullying behaviors along with other mental health issues. Schools can also help students develop these skills through a variety of programs, including child development and child care courses or social and emotional learning courses that teach them how to think about the world around them as well as other living organisms. Besides helping schools foster empathy skills for children, parents need to model these skills by discussing how their feelings are similar or different from their child’s feelings. Empathy Skills and the Impact on a Social Group When people exhibit a high level of empathy skills, they are abler to understand others and bridge social gaps. This helps their social group become healthier, happier, and more active with fewer incidents of bullying. Studies show that people who are less driven by self-interest and more driven by the needs of others experience lower stress levels, happiness, and better quality of life. The research also shows that those who empathize are less likely to bully others because they can see the effects of negative behaviors on society. Thus, empathy skills help avoid bullying behaviors in schools as well as reduce negative feelings between disparate groups within society that can lead to rioting or other similar acts. CHAPTER 16: LISTEN TO PEOPLE Listen to people, note key points, and don’t interrupt. If you want to become a better communicator, three fundamental skills will get you there, listening, not interrupting, and summarizing. Listening Listening lays the groundwork for an effective communication session. Avoid interrupting others so they feel heard and respected. Having the ability to summarize what they’ve said is equally important. When the listener recognizes their thoughts are heard, enhanced levels of trust and understanding blossom on both sides. Implementing these three skills can make for a smoother, more effective, and productive work setting. Communication is a two-way street. Listening is the key to unlocking the door to anyone’s thoughts or ideas that you are trying to get into. It is one of the most important skills that you can learn in life, and it’s a skill that comes with time and practice. Even if you don’t completely agree with what someone says, try not to interrupt them in the first place—it will make them feel as if they aren’t being heard by you, which makes them less likely to share their thoughts with you in the future. Listening takes time—the simplest way to improve your listening skills is to take notes of key points you hear. Next, go through those key points with a knowledgeable friend or colleague and find the most important ones. Summarize them in one sentence. Let’s say the person has said something about their new job and they need money to move out of a tight spot. For example: “I just got my first paycheck from my new job, but I still need money to move out of this place.” After summarizing what was said, share what you’ve summarized with another person who you trust and have confidence in. Reiterate what the person has said, word for word, to make sure you have it correctly. This sounds like a simple process, but if you aren’t taking notes and summarizing what someone has told you in a few sentences, then you hinder your ability to learn on your own. Taking notes and summarizing what they said will allow you to remember key points when you are thinking about something later on. This skill sets the groundwork for future conversations with others and helps foster better relationships—which leads to the next skill. Don’t Interrupt Others This is one of the most common mistakes that people make when communicating with others: interrupting. When someone is speaking to you, try to listen effectively and avoid cutting them off. Interrupting someone will make them feel as if they aren’t being heard by you—which may make them less likely to tell you anything in the future. Interruptions can be unintentional—due in part to your distractions or because you are moving too quickly on your end of the conversation. Whatever the reason may be, try not to let it happen again in future conversations. If you notice that you have interrupted someone, try to apologize and ask them if they would like to finish their thought. Whatever the case may be, the person will appreciate your effort at trying to get them back on track. If they don’t respond right away, give it time—don’t push them either. Although this may take some time for you to accomplish on your own, it will pay off for both parties involved. Summarize What Is Shared With You Summarizing someone’s thoughts is the last aspect of a good communication session, as it helps foster trust between two or more people speaking with one another. It’s important to remember that you must always do your very best to summarize what they have shared with you. It's difficult to find the right words when summarizing a conversation, but it will be worth the effort that you put into it. Besides remembering what was said, try to find the key points and share them in a few sentences. Summarizing what is said will help make sure that everyone understands exactly what people are talking about and how much they have heard correctly. When situations like these arise, try not to panic—it is one of those situations when taking notes serves as an asset because of the information that has been learned or heard during the conversation. In communication, there are many ways to approach the topic—but these three fundamentals are the most important. If you can implement these skills into your own life daily, you will be surprised at the impact you can have on others. Are you ready to challenge yourself? Let’s go! Communication has become one of the most important aspects of our lives. Be it in business environments or personal relationships, communication has been there for us. However, communication is not the same for everyone. Some people have better skills in communication than others. Some people enjoy talking, while others prefer to be quiet and reserved. However, there are a few things that can be done to improve our communication skills. CHAPTER 17: VERBAL, PARAVERBAL, AND NONVERBAL COMMUNICATION Verbal, paraverbal, and nonverbal communication are the principal ways that we communicate with other people. Verbal communication involves the spoken word and includes both speech and written texts. Paraverbal communication (body language) is carried out through facial expressions, gestures, and tone of voice. Nonverbal communication takes place when we use our physical bodies to send messages about ourselves, such as when an individual can’t stop fidgeting or cross their arms tightly in front of their chest. Before you can communicate you will need to understand what these are— which 2 types have the potential to be most influential, how they work together, how each type differs from one another—so that your message will always be effective. To get the most out of your communication, it is important to understand how you communicate with others. Whether you are communicating through verbal, nonverbal, or a combination of both, it is important to recognize how each component is affecting your communication with others. Verbal Communication Verbal communication involves the spoken word and includes both speech and written texts. It involves the use of such verbal devices as tone, pitch, volume, and rate of speech. These elements can be effective in sending messages to others because they invite a response from listeners. Tone involves the way we say things. It is the feeling or attitude that we give our words. Our tone may display interest, excitement, tension, happiness, sadness, or confusion. When we want someone to be enthusiastic about what we are saying, it helps to speak in a high-pitched voice; when trying to be persuasive and get someone to do what you want, it helps to talk in a deep and persuasive tone. Pitch is the rate at which the voice rises and falls as it speaks and adds expressiveness to our words. The way we say things with pitch varies depending on whether we are speaking with a friend or authority figure. Rate is the speed at which we type our words. Our rate can be fast or slow, depending on the reason for the communication. Verbal communication is the most common form of communication with people of all ages and cultures. It is usually confined to specific situations, such as when responding to an interview or law enforcement questioning. Verbal communication is easily understood by others, but can also be misinterpreted. One reason that is important to know how others perceive what we say when communicating with them is because there are many ways that our words can be interpreted. Verbal communication can be easily understood by others, but can also be misinterpreted. Paraverbal Communication Paraverbal communication involves facial expressions, gestures, and tone of voice. These elements can be effective in sending messages to others because they invite a response from listeners. Facial expressions may include an inclusive smile, fear, happiness, or sadness. They can give us away when we are not trying to reveal the truth. Smiling when we are sad may be perceived as fake, while lying and using a straight face is a common way of giving something away through facial expression. Gestures emphasize what we are saying and help get our point across. This may include waving hands in the air, pointing a finger, or using arms and hands to create a visual picture of what we are trying to explain. Gestures should not be overused; they may distract from the verbal message or seem too loud if overused. The tone of voice varies depending on the situation and our mood. Tone helps us to draw attention to keywords in our messages. By changing the tone of our voice, we can emphasize certain words and cause listeners to pay closer attention. A loud, angry tone may be used when trying to warn others about danger or emphasize disapproval. A gentle tone may show sympathy or encourage others. Nonverbal Communication Nonverbal communication involves your physical body and is also called body language. It uses gestures such as nodding, shaking the head, shrugging shoulders, leaning forward, or crossing arms in front of the chest. It can also include facial expressions and eye contact, such as frowning, smiling, or making direct eye contact with another person. While it is difficult for people to hide their body language, they can modulate the power of this part of their communication. Spontaneous body language may be awkward while trying to send a message and can be misinterpreted as a sign of deception. Some people use nonverbal communication to emphasize what they are saying by making certain gestures, such as crossing arms or shaking their head. It is important not to overdo it because gestures may be misinterpreted. Eye contact may show interest in what others are saying and help them feel comfortable being open with us. Biting the lip, crossing our arms, or looking away can all be signs we believe that a conversation is over and something else should happen instead. Communication is a two-way process between two or more people. A single individual can have many types of communication with different people. Communication is also sending messages to others about what we are thinking, feeling, and what we want them to do. There are three types of communication, 1) verbal, 2) paraverbal, and 3) nonverbal communication. Verbal communication involves the spoken word and includes both speech and written texts. Paraverbal communication (body language) is carried out through facial expressions, gestures, and tone of voice. Nonverbal communication involves your physical body and is also called body language. It uses gestures such as nodding, shaking the head, shrugging shoulders, leaning forward, or crossing arms in front of the chest. It can also include facial expressions and eye contact, such as frowning, smiling, or making direct eye contact with another person. To be effective communicators, it is important that we understand how others perceive our communication strategies. Whether we are communicating through verbal, paraverbal, or a combination of both, it is important to recognize how each component is affecting our communication with others. CHAPTER 18: COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUES Communication is the currency of diplomacy. It is also the foundation for democracy and diplomatic relations. Mastering these skills will help you move up in your career, as well as become more influential. Here will provide you with 10 techniques for improving your communication skills. 1. Develop a memorable introduction. 2. Keep it short and to the point—long sentences can be difficult to follow. 3. Tell people what they are going to learn and how they will be better off at the end of the presentation than at its beginning (end with a “call to action”). 4. Check for understanding with a brief question. 5. Use humor and other attention-getting techniques to keep their interest. 6. Make sure you have all the facts you need to make a good presentation. 7. Summarize your key points in the last part of your talk; provide a “take away” message that summarizes everything you have said. 8. Check for understanding by asking for feedback from your audience after every point or 2 as you go through your presentation. 9. End with a summary of what has been said, what has been accomplished, and what will be done next. Be sure this is consistent with the agenda and goals of the meeting at hand. 10. Practice, practice, practice! Go over your presentation out loud and fine-tune it until it flows smoothly. But remember that it’s not just about you. You’re the presenter but not the focus of the presentation (the audience is). Research Skills With an ever-increasing flow of information at our fingertips, learning how to organize and research information effectively is imperative for success. Here will provide you with ten techniques for improving your research skills. 1. Start by asking yourself what you need to know and what resources are available to help you find an answer. Your supervisor, colleagues, or friends may offer advice on where to look for reliable information. 2. Identify one or more critical paths for your research and develop a plan on how to get there. 3. Identify the information you will need from other sources. This may include books, articles, organizational websites, databases, etc. 4. Organize all of this information so that it makes sense to you. 5. Try to organize the recent information in your mind as you read it; this will help you make sense of how all the pieces fit together in an integrated whole (this is especially important for reading and comprehending technical manuals). 6. Learn the general terms for the highlighted portions. This will help you in the following steps. 7. Research, research, research! Look for more information on the terms, concepts, and topics you just learned (don’t forget to use your resources too!). 8. Create a chart (or outline) of all the new terms and concepts that you have learned. 9. Organize all of this information in a way that makes sense to you —try to go back through the process again in your head while reading through the information. This will help you remember it later on (this is especially important for reading and comprehending technical manuals). 10. Try to make sense of the data by concluding it. CHAPTER 19: EXERCISES Many people who are struggling to communicate their thoughts would benefit from learning new communication skills. To help you get started, we include exercises that will quickly improve your conversations and workplace interactions. With these strategies, you’ll be able to express your thoughts effectively and get what you want from others. Do these exercises with a friend or family member at least 3 times a week for 2 weeks before trying them out in the actual world. It’s important that you have someone else there to remind you of what to do if you forget! Exercises for Conversation Skills All of us need to communicate our thoughts effectively in conversations with friends and co-workers. To build strong communication skills, try the following exercises, and practice these conversation skills regularly so that you can more easily express yourself during discussions. 1. What I Like and Don’t Like About Myself and Others This exercise helps us learn how to recognize qualities we like and dislike in ourselves and others. Take a piece of paper and write your name in the center. Then create two columns on either side of your name. In one column, list the qualities that you like about yourself, and in the other, list the qualities that you don’t like about yourself. Next, ask a friend or family member to do the same. When both of you finish, compare the lists and discover what you share in common. Think about how those qualities help you or cause you problems. 2. What I Like and Don’t Like About Family Members or Friends This exercise is like the first one, but more specific. It’s a good idea to think about how we perceive our parents, siblings, or friends and print out their names in the center of your paper. Then add two columns on either side with the headers like and dislike. Include some examples for each category along with positive feelings, if appropriate. 3. What I Like and Don’t Like About My Co-Workers Once again, take a piece of paper and write your co-workers’ names in the center. Then, create two columns on either side of your name, with one category for things you like about your co-worker and another category for things you don’t like. Remember to list some examples for each category and include positive feelings, if appropriate. 4. What I Like and Don’t Like About My Bosses or Superiors Since your bosses likely have some of the same qualities that they dislike about themselves, consider making a list of those qualities in the second column. Then, in the first column, list some qualities you like about your boss and qualities you don’t like. Think about how these qualities can help or hinder your job performance. 5. What I Like and Don’t Like About My Colleagues or Superiors’ Colleagues Once again, think about what you dislike about your boss’s or co-workers’ superior and fill out a list in the second column. Then, in the first column, list what you like about your co-workers or bosses’ superior and what you don’t like. Think about how these qualities can help or hinder your job performance. 6. What I Like About Me and Why This exercise helps us learn how to establish and express our positive qualities. Take a piece of paper and write your name in the center, then create two columns on either side of your name. In one column, list the qualities that you like about yourself. In the other column, briefly explain each quality or example, if appropriate. Your goal is to think about these qualities and why you like them. For example, if you listed active, explain with an example that illustrates how you became active earlier this year when you went on your first trip abroad. You can write about your feelings and the positive characteristics you noticed in yourself after the trip. Developing these communication skills will help you build powerful connections with others. If you’re having problems communicating with other people, try using these exercises to improve your interactions. It may surprise you at how quickly this can make a difference in your relationships at work and home! Exercises for Writing Skills 1. Write About What I Like and Don’t Like This exercise involves writing about a specific topic. You can use the same template as above to write about your positive qualities. The goal of this exercise is to explore how you feel about yourself and explore what you like about yourself. Spend at least five minutes writing so that you have time to contemplate your thoughts. 2. Write About a Negative Experience This exercise helps us learn how to identify negative experiences through writing. Take a piece of paper and write several negative experiences or events in your life that have occurred in the last six months. 3. Write About a Positive Experience In this exercise, you’ll write about a positive experience that you’ve had. Think about what happened or what you did and write about how it made you feel. You can use the same template as above to write about your positive qualities. The goal is to explore how you feel about yourself and explore what you like about yourself. Spend at least five minutes writing so that you have time to contemplate your thoughts. 4. Write About an Incident In this exercise, you’ll write about a onetime occurrence. Think about the situation that happened in the last year and what it would be like if it happened again. After you’ve written about the incident, think about how it made you feel or what lessons you learned from it. You can use the same template as above to write about your positive qualities. The goal is to explore how you feel about yourself and explore what you like about yourself. Spend at least 5 minutes writing so that you have time to contemplate your thoughts. 5. Write About Your Goals for the Future In this exercise, you’ll write your goals for the future. Think about what you want to accomplish in the next five years and why these goals are important to you. Be sure to give straightforward answers and examples if possible. You can use the same template as above to write about your positive qualities. The goal is to explore how you feel about yourself and explore what you like about yourself. Spend at least five minutes writing so that you have time to contemplate your thoughts. CHAPTER 20: THE POWER OF COMPLIMENTS Compliments: Everyone loves them, and if you want people to do what you want, they’re a great way to start. Find something nice to say about someone—anything at all. The more unique, the better! Compliment something specific about their personality or appearance. A compliment is only effective when it’s genuine, so make sure that whatever you say reflects how you feel about that person. It’s important not to act like the compliments are your goal—it should be the service or favor they asked for in exchange. You can also try making an assumption and then offering a compliment as if it were true. “That dress looks like it was made for you,” is an assumption that could yield a compliment if it’s true. If the person says, “It wasn’t, actually,” you have still gotten the compliment in there without being presumptuous. By making a compliment part of your request for another person to do something, you are putting it on the same level as any other reason they might have for doing it—they are simply doing you this favor because you asked nicely. Think about how often we don’t do what someone has asked us to do because we don’t feel like we should have to or we feel like whatever is being asked is too trivial. By making a compliment part of the reason, you are lessening the sense of obligation someone might feel. You can also use compliments to be more specific when you are asking for help. “I don’t know what happened to my book, but I need a replacement by tomorrow!” is specific enough that people will know what they should do to help. A bonus to this strategy is that your compliment will be more genuine since you didn’t have to think about what you wanted to say. If people see your compliments as genuine, they’ll become more likely to do what you want. The Power of Context: Asking Nicely, and Still Being Nice What if you were in a situation where you wanted someone else to do something for you, but it wasn’t the right setting or the right time? In that case, there are two things you can do differently. First, assume that everything is done and taken care of. This is the same strategy we talked about in the Wishful Thinking article. If you think something has been done, it will be more likely you will treat whatever happens as if it were complete. When you ask for help, you can still use compliments and make them a part of your request, but instead of saying “I would appreciate some help with...” try saying “Thank you so much for helping me with... I know I was bothering everyone earlier but I’m thankful for this because...” Second: Perhaps what the other person wants doesn’t include doing something for you at all. Some people enjoy the idea of being nice but are uncomfortable doing things for people. That’s ok—you can still be nice while also asking for what you want. You might say something like, “Hey, I was wondering if I could get some help to set up my stand for tonight?” The first example is perfect if you have a question you need answered, and the second is perfect if all you want is donated time and energy. This means that when it comes time to get what you want, it will always be easier to ask kindly than not at all. The Power of Compliments: Positive Attitude This one is really easy. We assume that if we recognize someone as special, that will make them feel good about themselves. If we compliment people on their appearance by saying, “You look amazing today!” our intention is for them to feel grateful or happy. However, there is a difference between “you look beautiful,” and “you look amazing.” When someone says they are beautiful but you hear in their voice that they feel like they don’t fit in or are not good enough, then you may intend to hurt them rather than make them feel good. Similarly, you might say, “That’s amazing of you to do that for him.” But if the person hears, “You must be a good person if you did that,” then it’s likely they will feel more as though you are saying they are perfect—and that nobody could do what they did. This can be a hard concept to grasp without examples. Some compliments are great to use all the time because they will make the person feel good, and yet they are subtle in their effect. “You look amazing today” has a similar effect as “you look beautiful,” but is more likely to be less hurtful to someone self- conscious about their looks. Another benefit of this type of compliment is that it can be given, even if you don’t know the person well. This makes it an easily accessible technique for getting what you want from people who aren’t your friends or family. Asking For Help: Which Compliments Should I Use? Asking for help differs from asking for other things because you need to continue your relationship with the person after you ask. Compliments: You will need to make sure your compliments are genuine and not hurtful. Complimenting someone on their appearance or making a joke out of something they did in the past when it was tragic, can be pretty hurtful. If you’re unsure about what kind of compliment to use, ask yourself if the compliment might make a person feel bad about themselves or if it seems sarcastic. Remember that you are not always going to know what your compliments will make the person feel like—but you need to be aware of what direction they will go in. Asking For Help: If it’s obvious that the person is regretting their decision, or is seeking sympathy from others, then they probably won’t want you to ask for their help. However, if your friend seems happy with their choice and wants to help you with something, then it may be alright for them to offer their help. CHAPTER 21: FAMILIARITY BREEDS LIKING If you know someone, their name, and at least one of their likes and dislikes, then most likely you will feel more positively towards them. For example, if you know that your friend Steve dislikes cats but loves ice cream (but doesn’t mind dogs), then this means that your friend Steve likes ice cream much more than cats. This also means that when your friend Steve sees a cat in his yard and he goes to pet it with his hand—this will make him feel uneasy or distressed. So overall, if Steve hates cats but loves ice cream: then most likely he will dislike the thought of having a cat in the house (or even seeing a picture of one). Understanding people (especially other humans) is so essential that psychologists have a special name for the liking trait. It is called Theory of Mind, and it is part of the human brain’s ability to understand realism and anticipation. This means that to anticipate an event, the brain must first understand who will be involved in that event. To do these human brains assume how other humans would act and believe based on this assumption—if assumptions are correct, then liking will follow because of Theory of Mind. Theory of Mind might also be the reason you prefer actors you most commonly see in certain types of movies. The reason you like your favorite actors is that you are familiar with them. You know that their acting style is compatible with at least one type of movie that you enjoy. This means that when they play in a different sort of movie, which is not the same as the type they normally do—then sometimes it can feel unnatural. This Theory of Mind concept can also improve marketing. For example, using Theory of Mind on a brain scan shows us that humans respond better to virtual humans (with names) than they do to objects (like animals or buildings). This means that if you are trying to promote your product, consider creating a virtual human that looks just like the person in your ad. The reason people like things close to them is that it helps with their understanding of the world. For example, when you look at something whose name ends with sky, you may feel that the word sounds exquisite and therefore will have a positive impact on your mood because you might feel as though something wonderful has been accomplished. If there is more distance between you and an object (like a pet) then this means that feelings of annoyance are more likely to be caused by the negative aspects of that object —so similar objects will be judged differently. This even applies to food. In fact, the closer a person’s face is to a piece of food—the more they are likely to rate that piece of food as delicious (which is common with children). And if you take a piece of food that looks very much like another piece of food—then you are likely to judge the taste based on how closely it looks like the other object. Familiarity also breeds liking in relationships with objects and people. For example, if you have seen a new car before but paid no attention to it—then when you see it for the first time again, your brain will generate an interest in knowing who or what the vehicle belongs to. If the vehicle is owned by someone that you like, then this could mean that your feelings towards the vehicle will also increase—if it belongs to someone that you dislike, then you will probably develop a negative opinion of the vehicle. Familiarity also helps with marketing through imprinting. Marketing agencies know people prefer products and services that they have heard about before (even if they are not familiar with these products or services). Assuming a person hears about a product from an acquaintance (who has already had positive interactions with the product)—then this means that there is a much higher chance they will want to see what all the fuss is about and ask for it. For example, I know a few people who told me they would be interested in buying a hot tub. However, when I asked them if they had ever found out what one was before—none of them had an answer. So I took it into my own hands and searched the internet myself. Eventually, I discovered people spend their time relaxing in the hot tub after work. Once I saw that this was a common experience—then my respect towards these people also increased as it meant that they were probably still interested in what I did—even if they knew little about it! In conclusion, one of the best ways to improve human relationships is through familiarity with other humans. This means that it is important to keep in mind how you will first view a person or an object before deciding between them. By knowing what we already know, we can also know what we need to find out more about another person or an object. This means that if you know what you have seen before—then it can be easier to see new things in a new light. CHAPTER 22: IMITATING AND MIRRORING Imitating and mirroring someone’s words and behavior will make them think you’re a lot like them. It might be childish, but it works. And regardless of if someone is your friend, humans are hard-wired to feel good when other people mirror their words and behavior—which makes it an especially simple way to get someone to do whatever you want. Here are 3 different ways you can use the power of social psychology to get what you want from anyone: 1. “I’m Doing This Because I Like It... Don’t You?” Social norms dictate we should behave as others behave, so when we see someone else enjoying something or taking an action, we often enjoy it too or take the same action. If you do it because you like it, people will think you’re cool. It’s also a great way to get someone to do something without needing to explain why. “I’m doing this because I like it...don’t you?” is the most basic of social psychology tricks, but it’s a good one. When someone else does something nice or fun, we’re more likely to imitate them. But when we model others’ behavior, they don’t always catch on that we did it on purpose—which is why many people don’t know that this is manipulative. Would your friends and family think you did something nice and fun just because you liked it? Sure. But they wouldn’t know you did it on purpose. Here’s how to use this technique. Ask someone to do something, they agree, and then you tell them it was their idea. (Note that if you don’t feel comfortable doing this, specify that you’re just kidding around.) As long as they think the idea came from someone else, they’ll be more likely to go along with your plan or follow through with what they agreed to do. For example: Person: “Hey, I’m going out tonight.” You: “Really? Sounds fun. Why don’t I just meet you there?” Person: “Um... okay. Meet you there at ten?” You: “Sounds good.” Later, when you meet them at the bar: Person: “Why’d you want to meet me here before anyone else got here?” You: “Because I like it.” This is a good way to get someone to do something without having to explain why or make any excuses. This person may not be your friend in the strictest sense of the word—perhaps you’re just classmates or work colleagues—but these basic principles of social psychology still apply. And regardless of whether someone is your friend, it will make them feel good when someone else likes something they do. So you can use this trick on anyone. 2. “Don’t You Want to Be Friends with Me?” This social psychology method is slightly more offensive, but it’s still a smart way to get what you want from someone. It is the explosive combination of paying someone to do something and the manipulation of their emotions. If you can make someone feel good when they’re around you, they’re more likely to stick with whatever plan or action you put in place when they get home. Here’s what you do: Say something nice to someone. Tell them a funny joke. Compliment them about something. Clarify that you like them or think they’re cool. Then, after saying something kind, puff your chest out and say: “Don’t you want to be friends with me?” The second you make this statement; the person will feel like a jerk if they say no—but that’s exactly what you want. The more uncomfortable the other person feels, the more likely they are to agree with whatever plan or idea you have for them. And, again, this is a good way to get someone to do something without having to explain why. So if you’re embarrassed, you’re more likely to get what you want. 3. “I’m Doing This Because I Want Us to Be Friends” Humans are hard-wired to work together and stick with people they like. Researchers call this social cohesion. A simple way you can use social cohesion is when someone tells you they don’t want to do something or that they don’t enjoy doing something—but they need to proceed with whatever plan or action you have in place. You can simply tell them: “I understand. But I’m asking you to do this anyway because I want us to be friends.” Although you can’t force someone to like something or someone else, you can use social cohesion in your favor. The closer two people are, the more likely they are to follow through with what they say and do. So you sometimes need to get close with someone before you pitch your crazy idea. So if someone tells you they don’t want to do it, make them feel like their refusal would ruin whatever relationship you have—or whatever friendship they might have with you. They’ll feel guilty for refusing because of whatever relationship they think they have with you. They’ll do it because they don’t want to hurt you. Bonus: How to Get People to Like You The I’ll-teach-you-how technique works in a lot of different situations. You can use it with kids, adults, younger siblings, and even pets. You just have to make sure you’re doing the same thing as them. (Exercise caution if you try this with pets.) As long as they’re doing whatever activity or task they want to do, they’ll be happy and so will you—because people won’t complain about what’s going on as much when they’re doing exactly what they want. You can use this strategy in several ways. Maybe you have a younger sibling who loves video games, but you want them to do something else. You could tell them: “I’ll teach you how to make a video game.” (If your video game skills are good.) Maybe you have a friend who likes to spend money and will do anything to make more money. You could tell them: “I’ll teach you how to get rich.” Or maybe your best friend at work doesn’t like their job and they’re willing to quit if anyone can find them a better job. You could tell your co-worker, “I’ll teach you how. I’ll help you find a job. Just let me know when you want to leave.” You can also use this in a request for an altruistic action: “I’ll teach you how.” You might have someone on your team who agrees to help in the office more often than they do or do a lot of tasks above and beyond their job description. You could tell them, “I’ll teach you how to get ahead at work.” Or maybe you have someone in your family who always gets sick when they don’t want to get sick. You could ask them if they’d like to learn how not to be sick. CHAPTER 23: HOW TO CHOOSE RIGHT PEOPLE How to choose the right people for communication, how to talk with people in different spheres of life, and how to express feelings and thoughts properly. We will talk about the necessity of two-way communication between partners, parents, and children. Acquiring Communication Skills A person is born with no skills. He or she then begins life’s quest for success by acquiring various skills that correspond to their needs. These needs are at the least complicated level. Such skills are necessary to satisfy such basic wants as eating breakfast, going to work or school, etc. However, there are other levels of need beyond the fundamental ones that a person must have before being satisfied with their quality of life. For example, managing personal conflicts, interacting with relatives and friends, etc. The purpose behind acquiring skills is a person’s right to have a happy life. It is therefore essential that each person seek their advantages and find ways of fulfilling them. However, the real purpose behind acquiring communication skills, such as how best to express thoughts or feelings, is not as important as gaining related skills. Communication skills are very important, one cannot have a good life without them, at least not individually and not collectively either, for good communication makes it possible for people to live together harmoniously in family, society or interacting on social networks with others without causing conflict and unnecessary problems within the group. Communication is the most difficult skill for a person to acquire. For them to be successful, several factors must be present. The skill level of both parties should be relatively moderate. Otherwise, it will be impractical and difficult for them to understand each other. It will be more logical for one party to speak slower than the other party in order not to confuse or inconvenience them. The language used by both the sender and the receiver must be compatible with their respective needs, as well as with their circle of relationships. For example, family members, friends, and co-workers. The sender and the receiver must have a common set of rules or laws. They must be able to agree upon the way of life that they all want to live. The sender and the receiver should have a shared goal or aim. These goals can be something as simple as doing well in life, making someone happy, gaining knowledge, etc. If they are not compatible with each other’s needs. For example, with one person being interested only in large-scale business while the other person is interested only in day-to-day activities. This might cause a misunderstanding between them. Communication skills are essential in daily, professional and social relationships. Vocational training should include communication-related courses. Basic skills include non-verbal communication such as body language, which is not only crucial in face-to-face interaction but also in electronic commerce. If a person’s set of values, such as honesty, loyalty, and ambition, matches those of their peers, he or she will fit in well with others who have the same or similar sets of values. So people need to choose their friends wisely, because the right set of values will make them successful in life. Cultivating the right set of values is the secret to a successful life. Communication Rules There are several types of communication: Face-to-face communication is the most natural form of communication because people can relate directly to each other, but it requires more time and effort than other forms. This form of communication is often referred to as in-person communication. Face-to-face communication means that two people are talking and listening directly to each other, or that they are sending each other something through the mail. It is considered the most common and basic type of communication. Telephone communication is by far the most popular form of communication in the United States. In 2011, approximately 74% of American households had a telephone. The phone is usually used to talk with people or to send text messages or voice mail messages to others. This form of communication is telephonic conversation. The email has become a significant new means for conducting business, sharing information, and keeping in touch with others. Email allows users to send and receive electronic messages through a computer or other Internet service provider (ISP). This type of communication is e-mail messaging. Internet communication is a relatively new form of communication that allows people to communicate with each other electronically. This form of communication is common in the United States and other developed countries, where there is a high demand for more efficient forms of communication. In 2011, approximately 66 percent of American households had Internet access at home. It can be thought of as an instantaneous communication. Faxing is another method of electronic communication. Verbal communication is when a person uses words to communicate, whereas non-verbal is when a person uses no words but relies on body language or actions to communicate. One way that most people communicate verbally is by writing a letter or an email message, both of which are very popular. In previous generations, letters were the more common form of communication in writing, but these days emails are more popular because they are faster and it is easier to respond quickly to an email than a letter mailed through the postal system. There are several forms of nonverbal communication, such as facial expressions, body language, hand gestures, and even the tone of your voice. Verbal communication is just the opposite; it is using words that come across in your face or words that come through your voice. As we can see, there are various ways for people to communicate with one another. CHAPTER 24: BEST WAY TO TURN AN ENEMY INTO A FRIEND How you interact with people matters. Life’s too short to waste time with people that bring you down. And it’s become increasingly clear over the years that what we think of as “office politics” has nearly reached a fever pitch in terms of its pervasiveness and impact on our daily lives at work. So much so, that the term “office politics” is now often used to refer not just to office interactions among co-workers, but also interactions between employers and employees. What does this mean? It means that virtually every conversation, be it amongst co-workers or colleagues or bosses or employees, has the potential to become an argument. And while there are certainly times when it may necessary to defend yourself, the best way to handle office politics is not through the defense. Instead, the best way is through understanding. And the only way to understand it is by learning how your interactions are being perceived by everyone else involved. How to Be a Good Listener First, have an excellent reason for being present in a conversation at all— especially if there is over one person caught up in the discussion on either side. In other words, don’t be there just to hear yourself talk. Instead, keep the following tips in mind: Listen without faking it: The best way to become a better listener is simply to listen. However, it takes more than just hearing what is being said. To become an effective listener, you need to not only hear what is being said but also understand how those words are being said—i.e., tone and context. Only then will you be able to have an intelligent conversation with whomever you are speaking with. At the same time, don’t try to do too much at once. Listen for understanding: Sometimes we don’t listen because we’ve already formed an opinion and haven’t bothered to hear what the other person is saying—instead, we are busy forming a rebuttal in our head. Try instead to listen for understanding. If you can help it, try not to prejudge what you think they will say before they say it. If you are tempted to interrupt them, hold yourself back so that you can understand what they are trying to say. Listen for the subtle: Listening, if done properly, is a very nuanced process. Indeed, it goes beyond just listening to what you’re hearing. Most of us are fairly good at listening to what we want to hear. We can practice being open-minded enough that we can not only hear but also understand that which we aren’t immediately sensing or understanding. Whether you know it, you have blind spots. You may not even realize when they are there—but they are there, and so they need to be addressed. Listen for emotions: Emotions drive conversations, so it’s important to learn to listen not just to what you’re hearing but also to how it is being received. Isn’t it interesting how often we are quick to tell someone that they are wrong when we are angry with them? How many times have you become defensive because your feelings were hurt? Listening is about taking these things into consideration. It is about understanding how the other person feels and what they want because of feeling that way. Listen without judgment: When you can do this, you become a better motivator—and a better listener. You’ll make better decisions and you’ll be able to motivate others. Good Communication Is the Key to Resolving Office Politics The fact is that office politics is about communication and decision-making. And those who understand this are also usually the ones who can resolve the issue. If it comes down to things such as power or dominance, then it takes a special person to surrender it all and create a more positive environment for all involved. You need some fire in your belly—something that can motivate you enough that you want to both get what you want and see everybody else get what they want too. You also need compassion. You need to understand what others want or expect, and you need to put yourself in their shoes to do so. Do You Work In a BI-Office Environment? If your workplace is a bi-office environment, then here are some things that you can do to make it a more harmonious environment. Keep everyone informed. Make sure that you know what’s going on with everybody else and spark up conversations about what’s happening among them. Spark up conversations. Create conversations amongst coworkers to break down barriers and build relationships—both personal and professional. Be there for everyone. Be there to support your coworkers both professionally and personally if need be. Seek common ground. Seek the things that connect you and your coworkers, even though there are differences in your jobs and responsibilities. Practice conflict resolution techniques. Know when to sit down with others you may have a conflict with and try to resolve it before it gets too big to handle. Avoid gossip of any kind. It’s easy to sit in corners and talk about others, but that doesn’t always work out well. Instead, try to avoid it as much as you can. Be open to new ideas. Don’t shut down new ideas until you have given them a good chance to play out. You never know if something good can come of it. CHAPTER 25: HOW TO BUILD A LASTING RELATIONSHIP “Successful interpersonal communication is a valuable tool in life. Relationship building, acceptance, and understanding are all a part of the process.” 1. Learn How to Share Your Feelings Telling someone how you feel is a scary thought for most of us. We are fearful of rejection, and being vulnerable allows others to have control over our emotions. Despite this fear, if you want to improve your interpersonal skills, being able to share your feelings with others is important. The ability to communicate what you think and feel will help build relationships with those around you. These skills can be broken down into three parts, 1) being aware of what you are feeling, 2) expressing the way you feel is an effective way, and 3) being able to understand other people’s feelings as well. By improving these three areas in your life, communicating with others will become easier for you. Education Becoming a better communicator requires learning about yourself and others. Whether you are trying to understand their needs better or sympathize with their perspective, it’s important to understand the foundation of how people feel, think, and respond to situations. By understanding your own emotions and the emotions of those around you, you can be a more effective communicator. Know Your Emotions If there are certain emotions that you have a hard time dealing with, it will be hard for you to express them appropriately. Everyone experiences different feelings in varying degrees, so identifying which emotions bother you often is the first step in this process. Even if you don’t work through all of your emotional issues right away, identifying a few that bother you the most is a good start. Being Self-Aware When you’re aware of your emotions and how they influence those around you, it will be easier to express them in constructive ways. Many people are unaware of their emotions or don’t realize how they affect others. The first step is to become self-aware and learn how your emotions affect you. In time, this will allow you to understand emotion on a deeper level. Learn From Others Just as it’s important to understand your feelings, it’s equally important to understand the feelings of those around you. Asking open-ended questions is a great way to understand the emotional needs of others. The more you know about the different emotions of those around you, the more you can help them through difficult situations. Bring Your Emotions Out in the Open Evaluating your emotions and gaining knowledge of what others feel can be helpful, but being aware of your feelings and sharing them with others can be an even better tool for communication. If someone is having a bad day, being aware of this will allow you to empathize with their situation. If you don’t know how to handle a certain situation, expressing this emotion can help promote understanding among those involved. Telling the people around you how you feel will help them understand your perspective and point of view. Getting Started Bringing up your emotions can be a hard thing to do. Fear of judgment, embarrassment, or even anger are often reasons for suppressing how you feel. If this is the case, it will be difficult to build lasting relationships and positively affect those around you. If you fear rejection or judgment, it’s important to start small. Pick someone easy to communicate with and tell them about a situation in which you felt a certain way. The more comfortable you become with expressing yourself, the easier it will become for you to open up to others in positive ways. 2. Understand the Power of Body Language Although we often use body language to express our feelings, many people don’t realize the genuine power that this form of communication holds. Although verbal communication is extremely important in interpersonal relationships, body language is sometimes the most useful tool for relaying a message. Body language can tell us so much about a person: how confident they are feeling, how they feel about you, and what kind of mood they are in. Body language is extremely versatile and will show different signals depending on who you are interacting with. If someone likes you or is attracted to you, their body will often give off signs they care about you and want to be closer to you. On the opposite side of this spectrum, people who don’t like you will often act in a way that shows this. Body language is developed through a variety of factors, the person’s age, height, weight, appearance, and many others. The signals that come from body language are often involuntary: you can’t control your own body and what it does without thinking about it. Body language has been shown to affect peoples’ emotions in many ways, however, it is still not completely understood. Education Understanding how body language communicates will help us understand more about ourselves and others. Although there are many other factors involved in our understanding of body language, learning these basics will allow us to build stronger relationships with those around us. Developing Body Language Our first step in understanding how our body language interacts with others is to become more aware of how this aspect of our personality affects others. By noticing your body language, you’ll be able to learn what it means to other people and what they’re expecting out of you when communicating. As you’re learning about this aspect of yourself, remember that body language affects everything around you. Becoming a More Effective Communicator By taking the time to understand how your body language affects others, you can become a more effective communicator. Understanding what signals are being sent out can help create a better relationship between yourself and those around you. 3. Ask Questions to Understand People Better Although this may not seem like the best method for getting to know someone, the ability to ask meaningful questions can be a great way to understand someone better. The key is in asking questions that allow you to learn about each other and show interest. By being an active participant in a conversation, you’ll be able to get a much better feel for each other and how they’re feeling. The power of asking questions lies not only in gaining more knowledge about others; it also allows those around you to reveal their true intentions. By asking questions that encourage them to consider what they’re going to say, you’re setting the stage for a meaningful conversation. People rarely answer these types of questions with simple answers because they want to give off the impression that they’ve put real thought into their answer. If you want to get to know someone or better understand how they respond in certain situations, ask them questions and encourage them to think about what they’re saying. It will help you create a much more meaningful relationship with those around you. 4. Learn How to Take Criticism in Healthy Ways Knowing how we react when people criticize us is an important part of understanding ourselves and how we interact with others. It’s very easy for someone to insult us, and it can be a very emotional experience for us to hear what people have to say. However, these negative comments aren’t always accurate or helpful. While many things are out of our control when being criticized, we can learn how to take criticisms in healthy ways. By understanding this concept, you’ll be able to let criticism go without feeling hurt by it. You can learn from the experience and not let it affect your emotions negatively, or you can rationalize the criticism and use it as something productive. The key here is in learning how to address the situation and accept that people will have opinions about us that aren’t always positive. 5. Learn How to Make Friends and Relationships Last The world is busy and competitive with many social circles it has to keep track of. You have your work relationships, your friends, your family, and more. These are all important elements of our lives, but what we rarely realize is how the quality of these relationships can affect us even more than we realize in the long run. CHAPTER 26: MANAGE THE DIFFICULT SITUATIONS Manage the difficult situations and relationships that make up your life with these few simple tips. Every relationship you have, no matter what it is, relies on the quality of your communication skills. Whether you’re communicating with friends, co- workers, or family members—or even if you’re just engaging in a healthy debate online—communication skills will come into play. But what are the best ways to communicate effectively? Which methods are most likely to avoid misunderstandings or arguments? We’ve compiled a list of techniques that will ensure you’re always able to calmly and confidently get your point across. 1. Don’t Expect Perfect Communication It might seem like it should be easy to just sit down and have a calm, rational discussion with someone who is objectively on the same side as you. But that’s not always the case; even if you are both on the same side of an issue, you are still dealing with two different perspectives. In such discussions, it is important to remember that while there is a right and wrong version of something, there are always two different versions of reality. This means that communication cannot be perfect. You can only do your best to listen to someone before responding, understand what they’re saying, and then respond reasonably. 2. Stay Emotionally Neutral It’s very easy for a discussion or debate to get heated. As soon as a topic becomes heated, remain confident and rational. When you lose your temper, it’s hard to know what will happen next. This isn’t just true in debating policy issues with friends or family, but also in the online world—even on message boards with an aim purpose like a gaming site (or even simpler sites that nothing more than sharing funny pictures). 3. Know Your Primary Goal You shouldn’t always go into a conversation with one goal in mind, instead understand the goal of the person you’re speaking with (or whoever is writing something on an internet message board). Do you want to win this debate? Help them? Change their attitude? If your goal is to achieve some kind of change or agreement, then try to do so in a way that doesn’t make the person goad you into anger. You can use techniques like framing, which will be discussed below, but if you want to agree, it’s important that you don’t create an ongoing argument or dispute. 4. Know How to Frame Your Response If you know your goal and know how the other person’s perspective will affect it (and maybe even sympathize with it), then you know how to frame your response. Framing means adapting a discussion or debate to a different audience. So if you are trying to wage a political debate with your conservative uncle, you are framing the argument from the perspective of your audience. You might not just focus on your side of the issue, instead, try to explain how what you’re arguing is consistent with his beliefs. Many people use this technique in advertising, using statistics and information about products and services that have been shown to appeal to their target audience. 5. Use “I” Statements “I” statements are important because they help to avoid confusion about who is saying what, and they also make it possible for the other person to empathize with you better. When you make statements that use “I” frequently, it’s clear to the listener that you are responsible for what you’re saying. It can also be used to explain any emotions you might be feeling during the conversation, without using them as an excuse or as a point of aggression. It’s much easier to avoid heated arguments with people when you use this technique. CONCLUSION How to Make People Do What You Want It’s not always easy to make people do what you want, but it is possible. You just need a few tricks up your sleeve... That’s why we put together this list of seven scientifically proven ways to influence others and all the little methods that are most successful at getting the job done. And while these tactics may seem unethical or manipulative at first glance, some of them can even have positive effects in the long run— like improving performance and boosting creativity. But here’s the catch: By using these methods, you’ll always have to maximize your chances of making a person do what you want. And this means playing an active role in shaping their behavior—even if it’s just a bit —because acting on your motivations is never enough. 1. Empathize with Their Goals, Not Yours One of the easiest ways to make someone do what you want them to is by empathizing with their goals instead of your own. According to psychology professor Dr. Paul Zak, this is because your emotions play a much larger role in your behavior than you may think—which is why people will agree to do things they wouldn’t normally do if you show them that doing so will help someone else, too. “If you can link a desirable outcome for yourself to that person and somehow put yourself in their shoes, you’ll have a much greater likelihood of getting them to change their mind,” Zak explains. “I call it ‘the empathy box.’” Dr. Susan Krauss Whitbourne agrees with this theory. “People often decide what to do based on how they feel about the situation, so if you can make them feel good about doing what you want, they’ll probably go along with it,” she says. 2. Proximity Is Power We’re more likely to say “yes” to someone close to us than we are a stranger —even when we don’t have any personal feelings toward the person. Psychological studies show that people like people similar to themselves, and when someone’s close by, we automatically look for similarities before anything else. We also perceive those who are similar to us as having more power than others. “We often defer to friends, peers, and acquaintances because they are close and we have some kind of connection with them,” says Robert B. Cialdini, who has researched this effect in his career. “So we take their viewpoints much more seriously than those of people who are less similar.” 3. Ignore Your Motivation and Strive for the Other Person’s Research shows that humans are terrible at knowing how we feel, so we often misread the situation and focus on what other people think of us rather than our motivations. That’s why psychologists recommend trying to ignore your motivations for influencing another person, and instead focus on theirs. In their study “Science and the Art of Persuasion,” Cialdini and Peter Glick looked at a situation in which a guy who wanted his girlfriend to go out with him used two different influence tactics: an ingratiating tactic (which people use more when they have personal gain in mind) and one that was more interpersonal (when the person wants someone else’s approval). Both tactics worked equally well for getting the woman to accept his request, but she agreed with the interpersonal tactic by far. 4. Don’t Tell Others What to Do Try to avoid telling people what to do in certain situations because it can be perceived as manipulative. “When you force a person to do something indirectly, they’ll feel less strongly that they want to do it,” says psychology professor Dr. Brian Hornsey, who says that people don’t like being attributed to their negative behavior. If you want someone else to do something and you don’t tell them exactly what to do, all the more power goes to them and the likelihood of them doing it goes up. 5. Make It Convenient for Them to Follow Through If you want a person to complete an action, it’s best to make it as convenient for them as possible, even if that means giving them just a bit of advice on how to do it. Based on studies by psychologists Klaus Förster and Peter Miller, it’s easier for people to follow through with actions when they’re doing things that aren’t required of them. In one test, teachers who asked students to write a short story did better than those who gave no instructions at all. The students felt obligated to provide the story to get good marks, but did the exercise in their time. 6. Share the Responsibility Another way to make someone more likely to follow through with your request is by asking them to share the responsibility. “If you want them to do it with you, they’re more likely to show you they care about what it is,” says University of New South Wales psychology professor Ken Sheldon. 7. Use Scarcity to Encourage People to Make a Decision Incentives naturally motivate humans; a concept psychologists call “the scarcity principle.” In one experiment, people given $30 were more likely to pan for gold than those who received $40 because having $30 would be a greater incentive than having $40. The scarcity principle is a part of human nature, and as a persuader, use it to your advantage. When you have limited resources, it gives others the sense that there’s something really special about what you’re offering and they want it more.
